---
date: '2001-09-18T16:10:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<b>New Work:</b>
<br />A new installation, "hate mail," will be up on the internet shortly. This work is also going to be shown live in various locations. To help with showing this work, continue reading past "Update on Donations," below.
<br />
<br />The work deals with many themes present in our lives as of this moment: abuse, hatred, terrorism, meaning, and linear vs. non-linear processing. It promises to be the most profound work thusfar from danielsjourney dot com.
<br />
<br /><b>Update on Donations:</b>
<br />Many of you have responded to our support letter favorably. We want you to know that our spirit behind the letter was more to keep you in touch with what we are doing and where we are going as much as it was a call for support. Any type of support is great, included just an email to say "Hi!"!
<br />
<br />Also, in light of the events of Sept 11, any charitible monies you have available would be better invested in relief efforts for those who have lost loved ones in the tragedy.
<br />
<br />One way you can be of support is by providing show space for danielsjourney. A new installation entitled "hate mail" will be available from the internet, however a digital gallery is really the place for such an installation. The work deals with hate and abuse, including the tragedies of last week. If you can be of assistence in the showing of this work, please contact danielsjourney through the email address available on the website. {dealingwith@yahoo.com}
