---
date: '2001-09-18T15:54:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<b>Note on Donations:</b>
<br />Because of the nature of our umbrella non-profit, Manna Ministries, all monies donated through Manna will be used only in Slovakia. For us this is not problem: we are planning to do work in Slovakia at some time in the future (see "Slovakia" below). Current work opportunities are keeping us in the United States until the end of the year, however. Please understand this if donating through Manna. 
<br />
<br /><b>Update on Miriam and Daniel:</b>
<br />Speaking of current work opportunities, a chance to do contracting has come up for Daniel. This is a perfect chance to be freed to continue to work on danielsjourney as well as put some food on the table! This also means your donation can be used directly for the art itself, as opposed to said food! This is a really great thing! 
<br />
<br /><b>Slovakia:</b>
<br />Part of our vision is to bring a spirit of optimism to this country beset in pessimism. During our visits there over the past three years, we have been almost overwhelmingly inspired by the beauty and culture we find. We wish to contribute to the spirit of the people through the art inspired by the land as well as create a bridge between peoples of the USA and Slovakia. Our primary means for doing this is through photography and writing, and an integration of the two that suggests meaning through unique art experience. See europe01: beauty/decay/order/chaos for an example. 
<br />
<br />We plan an extended trip to Slovakia to further expand on these themes as soon as possible. 
<br />
<br />
