---
date: '2002-06-11T16:27:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Dear All,
<br /> 
<br />It is bittersweet, but more sweet, with fear and joy, but more joy, that I write you and let you know of the immediate future of the Miriam and Daniel Miller family.
<br /> 
<br />Many of you already know that Miriam has been accepted into the Foreign Service. If you didn't already know, well now you do. And to make a long story short, all this year we have been hoping for a start date of November, which seemed like the earliest possible chance to start since the July and September Foreign Service Institute (I think that's what it's called) classes had been filled already. Well, God had different plans and we are moving before the end of this month. Miriam was slotted into the July class at the last minute when someone withdrew. She must report in Wash. DC on July 1.
<br /> 
<br />Needless to say, this adds a level of excitment, urgency, and hecticness (is that a word?) to our lives for the next few months. The school is for 7 weeks, at which point Miriam will be informed of what country will be her first station. There will be additional training in DC specific to that country, and then we will be off for two years to said unknown country. But we are very excited to go anywhere and experience new cultures, peoples, and in short, live an experience-rich life. (NOT that we don't have that already...which leads me to...)
<br /> 
<br />We are very sad to leave our community of friends and co-journeymen and women in south Florida, but we are optimistic that through the web, email, and trips back home, the distance will be made shorter and the time away quick. You are all of course invited to come visit us wherever we end up. I'll just be chillin'...doing what I do now but long distance...so I would love the company and I'll be sure to take you to all the best local places. I'd be more specific but until we know where we'll end up that will have to wait.
<br /> 
<br />As for danielsjourney, it will continue, hopefully without interruption (depending on the telecommunications available), and I will continue to journal on my blog, update with new photos, write, make music......some things may be more or less viable now because of circumstances, but I have had some big plans for the site and the "organization" (not that it is really one yet). This year I plan a total redesign, more content, more "stuff," and I also would like to start a seperate non-profit art foundation that would fund underground artists and help them get their art to a broader audience.
<br /> 
<br />We are downsizing even more now, and in that effort, before I start listing stuff on ebay (still unsure how we're going to swing all this in two weeks, but we'll figure it out), I wanted to give everyone a shot at our stuff we're getting rid of. Some of it isn't worth anything, and you can have it, other stuff IS worth something, but just make us an offer. We're not too worried about the $ if it is going to someone who needs it or could use it.
<br /> 
<br />Here's the stuff:
<br /><ul>
<br /><li><s>the Toyota Tercel -- '93, 108,000 miles, great engine, was going to drive this thing forever but alas...oh and really new AC</s>
<br /><li><s>TV Stand -- definately free</s>
<br /><li><s>set of three little tables -- hard to describe but useful...pine...like really simple end tables but smaller</s>
<br /><li>Armoire (sp?) -- the thing we have the computer in
<br /><li>Garage shelves
<br /><li>Lexmark color printer -- works great just needs a cartridge
<br /><li><s>Really old computer -- no mouse, keyboard, or monitor, ?? MHz, multiple 2G hard drives (some not installed); was going to make this into a Linux box, but never got around to it</s>
<br /><li>Collection of old Winning Bicycle Racing Illustrated magazines
<br /><li>Cycling videos -- 2000 Giro d'Italia, <s>'92 and '93 Tours de France, "Stars and Watercarriers," "La Course en Tete" (the famous Merckx one)</s>
<br /><li>Track racing bicycle -- Pinnarello, red, sad to see it go (if we end up near a velodrome maybe i'll end up getting another one, but...)
<br /><li>HED Disc (bicycle) wheel with extra track hub
<br /><li>Training bike -- Peugot, Araya clincher wheels with new Panaracer "messenger" tires, old Shimana Ultegra 12-speed groupo, new cables, brake hoods, bar tape, including a couple stems (really long stem is on there now for me, but i have shorter ones)
<br /> 
<br /><li>...and I have three photos that are framed and ready to go and I'm doing a fire sale...normally $150, now $75....I have:
<br />"<a href="http://www.danielsjourney.com/nada5_cutout8x6.jpg">nada</a>" 
<br />"<a href="http://personal.mia.bellsouth.net/mia/d/w/dwm_hope/hm/daymusicdied_small.jpg">the day the music died</a>" 
<br />and "<a href="http://www.danielsjourney.com/bratislava2.jpg">bratislava</a>" 
<br />
<br />"the day..." is 8x10, matted and framed, "nada" and "bratislava" are actually bigger (9x12?) and not matted, just framed...all are signed and numbered...</ul><p>Just email (or call) us. 
<br /> 
<br />Also if we are currently borrowing any of your stuff, don't worry, we're good about that! We will be calling you soon to see about returning it!
<br /> 
<br />Anyway, thanks for everything and I'll chat at you again soon when things have settled down again in DC.
<br /> 
<br />All our best wishes and prayers,
<br /> 
<br />Daniel Miller
<br /><a href="http://www.danielsjourney.com">www.danielsjourney.com</a>
<br />
