---
date: '2002-05-02T14:37:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<font color="#993333">This is the part of the movie where we call in Madonna’s husband for some visual help.
<br />
<br />This is the part of the movie where Obi Wan Kenobi climbs out of the public junkie toilet and pukes on the public junkie toilet floor.
<br />
<br />This is the part where the scene freeze-frames, but the camera is able to spin around. Where the Matrix lady is just about to kick the shit out of some computer program figments of her virtual imagination.
<br />
<br />Except this isn’t the movies.
<br />
<br />Not exactly.
<br />
<br />This is the part where we swing the camera around from behind to in front of Johnny and see him frozen in terror.
<br />
<br />No. No, this is not happening. Really. 
<br />
<br />This is the part where we swing the camera around from behind to in front of Johnny and see him speaking to us.
<br />
<br /><center>No. I mean that. This really isn’t happening. I’ve meant that.
<br />
<br />This is the part when you finally get to see who’s been talking to you all this time.</center>
<br />
<br />And he suddenly has the same face as the guy who’s got his right hand wrapped tight around his Judas Priest in the changing room that you definitely never want to use if you ever happen to be buying some Arizona denim blue jeans in the future. 
<br />
<br />Not that they aren’t a fine brand of <a href="http://www.geocities.com/SunsetStrip/8291/blyjean.mid">jean</a>.
<br />
<br />It’s just that that is a giz stain on that little tiny changing room chair.
<br />
<br />This the part where you suddenly realize why Micha is always looking so good. Because Micha works in women’s apparel. Because in fact Micha was a man’s name. Because in fact Micha was a man. Gay, but a man nonetheless. Because in fact Micha was the women’s apparel manager at a <a href="http://www.mapquest.com/maps/map.adp?countrycode=250&country=US&address=755+State+Rt+18+Ste+600&city=E+Brunswick&state=NJ&zipcode=&addtohistory=&submit.x=18&submit.y=10">chain store</a> in the Brunswick Square Mall in East Brunswick New Jersey.
<br />
<br />Was. Is. Whatever. What difference does it make?
<br />
<br />What difference does it make with all these toes around?
<br />
<br />Because this is definitely not the part where Renton appears in his brown monk robe, light saber in hand, and saves the day.
<br />
<br />This isn’t even the part where Irvine Welsh gets a nice fat check in the mail.
<br />
<br />This definitely isn’t the part where George Lucas makes more dollars than I’ve killed swimmers all over this place.
<br />
<br />This isn’t even the part where Chuck Palahniuk gets his third book turned into his third screenplay turned into his third movie turned into his third fat check in the mail.
<br />
<br />This isn’t even the part in Fight Club where Brad Pitt makes all the girls squeal in delight at the thought of eating his spooge out of a bowl of cream of mushroom soup.
<br />
<br />But it is the closest to that one.
<br />
<br />Squeal that is until they find out it was really Edward Norton making them choose between spit and swallow.
<br />
<br />But this isn’t a movie. 
<br />
<br />Point is, this is the part where you’ve seen me talking to you now for a couple seconds and you realize my voice has changed. You realize you never heard the voice of my brother, but that you were always hearing the voice of brother.
<br />
<br />You know, the sick one? I’m the good one. He’s the failure. I’m the success.
<br />
<br />This is the part when you realize I’m brother.
<br />
<br /></font>
