---
date: '2002-04-28T23:40:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<b>Update</b> on a few things:  
<br />
<br />0. My jaw is doing much better since my major TMJ attack one week ago. I have to eat real slow, and eating isn't really enjoyable, which might make this the best diet control program ever. A beer or two seems to help some, though, so I think that's compensating in the bad calories dept. I've started much more regular consumption of the substance.
<br />
<br />1. Went to Wal-Mart again today and was feeling very dissonant about my piece that's going to be in Next-Wave next month. Not going to do anything about it, but I realized that people are precious and community happens <i>despite</i> the terrible structures built up around us. I was actually feeling much more mad at Starbucks for branding community. Oh and I finished Palahniuk's <i>Survivor</i> and am reading just <i>No Logo</i> now, which will contribute to my anti-corp./brand/consumerbrainwashing. Plus I want to return it to it's owner. 
<br />
<br />2. So far <i>at least</i> <a href="http://www.dooce.com/02_26_02.html">1</a> (on a side note a few months later she totally stopped updating her <a href="http://www.dooce.com/">site</a>) person has been fired because of her blog, although just a little <a href="http://metatalk.metafilter.com/mefi/1887">digging</a> reveals quite a bit more of this type of thing. While I am currently unemployed, I do have one (count them, 1) client for whom I am doing some web design, and would like to think that my maintenance of my web site does not offend them in any way. Besides they have a very vicious attacker out there keeping them busy on that whole front. Besides I like them and the work so I can't imagine any problems. EVEN SO, I've long since concerned myself with what I put on the blog, be it the truth about my old work, the truth about new prospects, or just the abundance of the f-word in my Micha story, which I also post to this blog. Particularly the last bit, although the Micha story is a rough and tumble story hence all the cursing. I mean, it is fiction, right?
<br />
<br />But this all leads to an interesting thread which says, who are you trying to please? For example, I've had to be careful about what I say about our government, since Miriam is about to be hired by them. Not that I'm any more displeased now than ever (ok maybe a little bit more), but still. Our system is based around this thing called freedom, right? Same for corporations. I love how corporations, since they're giving you livelihood, think they can rule it over you like Nazis. If a corporate culture has no communications and bad morale, how can they expect their employees to be silent about their conditions? WAKE UP CALL TO CORP. BOARDS AND MANAGERS: if your employees hate working for you, YOU are probly doing something wrong. THIS WORLD is about the human condition, not $$$$ AS YOU MIGHT BELIEVE.
<br />
<br />The point is, their opinions and comments, if constructive (and even cynical comments can be constructive), should be used to <i>improve</i> things. They were said because something isn't right and needs to be changed.
<br />
<br />Why is the world run by fear? (That was a rhetorical question by the way.) I have to be careful so I don't piss off (pick one or more): the church, my employer, my potential employer, my audience, my potential audience? For me, I'm really only concerned about pissing off God. He's the one who could really screw me. And since my whole life has been about seeking after Him/Her, I think I might be ok in that department. People will continue to hate me for no reason, lie to me and about me to others, assume the worst about me, try and discourage me, refuse to understand me, just plain never understand me despite their better intentions. These things cannot be helped. All I ask is that God understands me. And sometimes I feel like he does.
<br />
<br />All this to say, I'm about to put my blog on my homepage, after Micha has finished with all her cursing and a new, less violent but possibly even more troubling story, begins. I will try and watch what I say. If you don't get it, that's ok. Just don't hate me for it. Don't judge me by it. They're just words. They're the best thing we've got, but they still just can't compare to divine intervention.
