---
date: '2002-04-07T19:56:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<font color="#993333">That night, as GS fell asleep curled up on that old couch, he fantasized about going back to DKG’s place with a machete. 
<br />
<br />As he slipped from consciousness, the fantasy turned into a dream. 
<br />
<br />GS sneaks back and waits for DKG to disappear into the house one weekend day when he’s out doing his sick habit. GS runs from his cover into the foxhole beside DKG’s house. None of the dogs are hanging there, but there is a secret door in the side of the foxhole that is slightly ajar. GS pulls the door open and peers inside, revealing a room full of taxidermied dogs. There’s even a fresh one on a table in the middle of the room. Filled with rage, GS takes his machete and starts hacking anything nearby--the dead dogs, the table, the taxidermy equipment. Just hacking. About that time DKG shows up at the door and yells something. You know how dreams are. People talk without talking, things happen randomly, events change like the wind. Well this was a case of the foremost. GS turns, just like in a movie, and swings the machete at DKG. It gets DKG right across the chest and a red line begins to grow on his white button-up shirt. 
<br />
<br />Suddenly DKG and GS aren’t in DKG’s taxidermy room anymore, they’re in Micha’s rental. 
<br />
<br />You know how dreams are. People talk without talking, things happen randomly, events change like the wind. Well this was a case of the latter.
<br />
<br />Both DKG and GS realize they’ve suddenly changed locals and look around, confused.
<br />
<br />This is about the time GS wakes up.
<br />
<br />And yes, he’s actually in Micha’s rental.
<br />
<br />Just no machete.
<br /></font>
