---
date: '2002-04-08T14:57:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<font color="#993333">The next morning, even though he had slept in, GS was still up and around the house before Micha had appeared from her bedroom. He had a slight hangover (from one scotch?). Some neck stretches and some fresh coffee got the crinks out, and he settled back on the couch with a good read. 
<br />
<br />Eventually, after her morning routine, Micha came out of her room, radiant and alive as ever. She was practically skipping around the kitchen as she made herself a cup and tried to mumble some small talk GS’s way.
<br />
<br />Morning people. Good grief.
<br />
<br />“So today we have to go see Tony.”
<br />
<br />Vinnie? Tony? This <i>is </i>starting to sound like a <a href="http://www.metafilter.com/mefi/7431#77022">bad</a> <a href="http://www.hbo.com/series/">HBO original series</a>.
<br />
<br />“He’s my contact for how we’re going to unload these jewels after we lift them.”
<br />
<br />“Whuut?” GS mumbled back.
<br />
<br />Micha quickly realized that GS hadn’t really been listening but with one ear, and rethought her approach.
<br />
<br />“We’re going to go visit a friend of mine who lives on the canal.”
<br />
<br />“Cul.”
<br />
<br />“He’s got this beautiful place overlooking the water, and on the other side of the building it’s a one block walk to the beach.”
<br />
<br />Cul. This time GS thought it. He’d been down here almost three whole days and hadn’t yet even laid eyes on the ocean, except for the approach into the airport. And even then he didn’t get a real good look because he was in the middle seat and some extra-old-smelling old person was in the window seat. To see at all he had to practically stick his face in her fragile perm. Any exposure longer than two seconds caused him to get light headed. 
<br />
<br />So the ocean would be good.
<br />
<br />Yeah.
<br />
<br />Whatever.
<br /></font>
