---
date: '2002-07-22T14:29:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Saturday night I went to see <a href="http://www.billandvol.com/">Bill Malonee</a> and the Vigilantes of Love. Except they were called the Trophy Wives on this tour. Anyway it was really good. I was really inspired. I needed that bit of church. "This is the new dark ages…"
<br />
<br />I was thinking about why humans will always tend to choose the selfish. And how that self will always effect others for the negative. When it is so easy to do the good thing. To give of yourself. And I am definitely the most guilty. It may be that Jesus has done a complete job of redeeming us with eternity when it comes to our shit, but while we're down here is another matter. I think xianity has done a back-asswards job of helping us out of our selfishness while we're here.
<br />
<br />And being in the fame business is pretty hard when the one who gives the creativity also tells you to be the most humble person in the universe. I wish I could get to that pure place of creating for one. I wish he would just show up to the concert every once and a while and quit standing in the shadows at the back of the room all the time.
<br />
<br />Yesterday we saw the indie film <a href="http://www.filmcritic.com/misc/emporium.nsf/2a460f93626cd4678625624c007f2b46/0995777ea1b0d22288256be500607b22?OpenDocument">Sunshine State</a>. It was a very important film for Florida or understanding that state's ethos. <a href="http://home.earthlink.net/~saylesweb/">John Sayles</a> nailed it. So anyone from Florida or just wondering about all my references to life in Florida, go check out this film. It's got no action, sex, or even cursing, it's 2.5 hours long, and it goes by pretty darn quick. Very good writing. Some great camera work. Well worth it.
<br />
<br />Went to that film with a bunch of FS peps. Good thing was we were introduced to this indie film theatre. Every film that place shows looks so good! It's incredible. I never did find the one in Florida, although I had heard about it. This one is a Metro (tube) (train) ride from our place.
<br />
<br />Also experienced the opposite of my political post from a few days ago: the rich white "smart" kid politically name dropping etc…The proud power political kind of thing. That falls into the same category as the totally uneducated media-fed political opinion. So let's just face it: I hate talking politics. Let's stop doing it.
<br />
<br />That and let's humble ourselves. I think that is what it comes down to. But I'll have to be the first to get crackin' on that. Cuz I am definitely not that.
<br />
