---
date: '2002-07-29T12:41:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Ok, well, let's move that last little tirade on down the page. I don't know why I had such an immediate, emotional, and negative reaction to that whole thing; but even once a cooler head prevailed I decided to leave it up, albeit struck through, as some kind of record of that reaction. Kinda like dirty laundry.
<br />
<br />The funny thing is that while my God becomes more distant, unknowable, un-pat, shows up less frequently and under infinitely more disguises, my faith in him and my confidence in his permanent place beside me and my ability to know what's important to him, only grows.
<br />
<br />Listening to the new Dave Matthews, for example…
<br />
<br /><i>She prays to God most every night
<br />And though she swears it doesn't listen
<br />There's still a hope in her it might
<br />She says "I pray but they fall on deaf ears,
<br />Am I supposed to take it on myself?
<br />To get out of this place?"</i>
<br />
<br />I relate more to that person now than ever. They say that the biggest risk of true understanding is that you would be changed yourself. This is the thing most evangelicals can't do; even their name contradicts that. They are here to convince. Give me the pat answer.
<br />
<br />True influence, true change, is brought about from a place of true understanding and real relationship; something evangelicals only have with themselves. This isn't a modern world anymore. You aren't going to win any debates. Get out of my face. I need to go be real with someone who really hasn't figured it out yet. And maybe we can help each other with our respective hope.
<br />
<br />Truth? Yeah. That was just it.
<br />
<br />It flew past in the wind you were shouting over.
<br />
<br /><i>What if God shuffled by?
<br />One day we might see
<br />Doing not a thing
<br />Breathing just to breathe
<br />We might find some reason
<br />But rushing around seems
<br />What's wrong with the world
<br />Don't lose the dreams inside your head
<br />They'll only be there 'til you're dead
<br />Dream</i>
<br />
<br />Who are the new prophets? Who are the new priests?
<br />
<br />Matthews. Bono. And the DJ.
<br />
<br />And unlike the priests of old and the pastors of now, they do not require your penance, tithe, or respect. They are just pointers. And they know it. 
<br />
<br /><b>Throw your Bible in the trash.</b>
<br />
<br />And start reading God again.
<br />
<br />Anyway…
<br />
<br />Saw another great indie-ish film yesterday. My Big Fat Greek Wedding. It was very funny and Miriam and I appreciated it more than most because we too have combined two very different cultures into one family, as they do in this movie. Well, more like culture and what culture? but I was a lot like the guy in the movie; ready and willing to dive into this very different scene. Besides it was the guy from Northern Exposure and he's always been a little bit of a hero to me…I'm even about to have his hair…
<br />
<br />Miriam and I were talking on our way back yesterday how it's so nice hangin' with the foreign service peps because they understand where she's from, appreciate her culture, know about international events in a deep way……we're not the leaders in all those areas, we're within peers! Pretty cool.
<br />
<br />Last night I finally got to play at an open mic, and it was a cool one! It was at Whitlow's, right down the street from our place. A new friend of mine played the "showcase" from 7-8 and I played my little 4-tune set at 8. I got talking to a lot of people there and it was a lot of fun. Even some of the cyclists from the team I went riding with on Saturday were there--one of them plays the open mics sometimes. I did have to rush home to catch the last stage of the Tour at 9, so I was a little bit of a shit for doing so; but the Tour is only on once. It ain't like baseball. Much more precious.
<br />
<br />And now that it's over I have a lot more time to get shit done! Ha ha!
<br />
