---
date: '2002-07-05T13:28:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<i>This is mostly for the south Floridians:</i>
<br />
<br />Yesterday (or was it the day before? I forget.) we went to Hollywood Video (the closest to our place) to get a couple videos. After we’d picked up our selections from the new releases, I said, “Let’s check out the foreign section.” It was at least 5 or 6 times the size of any foreign section I’d ever seen in FL. Amazing.
<br />
<br />Of course this all comes at a cost. No 99 cent video days here. No sir. Ree.
<br />
<br /><i>Additional minutia:</i>
<br />
<br />Last night we watched the DC fireworks, the ones over the capital, from our balcony. Pretty cul.
<br />
<br />During the day yesterday we consumed like crazy. Miriam needed shoes desperately, so we just got her a few pairs to try out and I’ll return the ones she doesn’t want later. I told her not to worry or mess about with this, that she needs good shoes now. So that’s what we did. We also did the Wal-Mart thing for some TP, etc. Reminded me I hope I get to my Next-Wave article before they “go to print” this month. I had some additions and errata. Well, there’s always the message board.
<br />
<br />Also, when I said Miriam won't get back to you on email, you can still drop her a line by phone or email to encourage her. If you call I may pick up but you can always call right back and leave her a voicemail...or just call on the weekends (BTW thanks all who have already called or emailed!)...
<br />
<br />Also getting used to hi-rise life. Looking down from the balcony is pretty weird. Taking an elevator many times every day is definately new. Definately different from the 1 story south Florida life...
<br />
<br />SO MUCH to do today. It’s crazy. Chat at you again soon.
<br />
<br /><i>I sortof know where I'm going with this now...these two have just been teasers...proper dialy serials coming very soon...:</i>
<br />
<br /><font color="green">Rodger isn’t a liar. He just needs to keep up pretenses.
<br />
<br />Rodger doesn’t really work for the government. The government, to the best of his limited knowledge about such things, doesn’t hire gay sexual predators with heroin issues. Rodger is a rent-a-cop at a major upscale suburban mall near DC.
<br />
<br />He does live in Arlington and Angie does come over a few days a week.
<br />
<br />Sex?
<br />
<br />You’re kidding, right?
<br />
<br />Heroin is way better than sex.</font>
<br />
