---
date: '2002-05-28T13:40:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Got a load of questions from someone and thought I'd share some of my answers with you here. I'm still not done responding to all of his Q's, but the rest wouldn't interest you as much, me don't think:
<br />
<br />I will try to answer your numerous questions as best i can:
<br />
<br />> I am certainly intrigued by your on-line personality.  I'm also interested
<br />> in knowing about your faith...what do you believe in? how did you come to
<br />> this? Do you attend church regularly somewhere...if so, where? Why do you
<br />> go
<br />> there...or not go anywhere?
<br />
<br />I believe in Jesus. Full stop.
<br />
<br />I actually told my story recently online. Although it got a pretty bad
<br />response. No church. No excuses. Would love to connect again with one, but
<br />just haven't been able to. Met someone online this week who does a church
<br />down here, was quite surprised to find him, actually. Could be a cul
<br />thing...
<br />
<br />Anyway, here is the story thusfar:
<br />http://personal.atl.bellsouth.net/mia/m/i/mill6858/story_1.htm
<br />
<br />> What are you trying to accomplish by tagging
<br />> SUV's...and do you think tagging is the best way? (I can't guarantee that
<br />> there won't be SUV drivers at the Vine, and I'd hate for them to come out
<br />> and find their vehicles tagged...that would not be in the spirit of the
<br />> Vine...but, I would absolutely suggest that you be put on a panel with an
<br />> SUV owner and give everybody the opportunity to hear each of you and to
<br />> engage each other face-to-face around the issues...hmmm, I'd be there for
<br />> sure...)
<br />
<br />It's funny you should bring this up. You're not the first and I can only
<br />guess at this point you won't be the last. You can catch up on all the
<br />tagging thoughts starting here and going on up for the rest of today (monday
<br />27 may):
<br />http://dealingwith.blogspot.com/2002_05_01_dealingwith_archive.html#76992684
<br />
<br />I'll reserve my moral right to stick bumber stickers on SUV's and SUV owners
<br />can reserve their moral right to press charges against me.
<br />
<br />Bottom line: Most Christians fight the fight against abortionists,
<br />homosexuals, intellectuals, athiests, humanists and agnostics. I fight
<br />against the blind consumers, the environment-destroyers, the non-thinkers,
<br />the prejudiced, those that would make war, pollute, and gain personally at
<br />the expense--intentions aside--of others. Most of the time I'm fighting
<br />alongside all the favorite targets of Christians, and defending them (the
<br />aformentioned abortionists, homosexuals, etc.). This makes me very
<br />unpopular. As does my stance against the institutional church (referencing
<br />first link).
<br />
<br />> What is worship?
<br />
<br />That's the question.
<br />
<br />> What is a worship installation? What does it do?
<br />
<br />We have adopted the word installation because we need new vocabulary. We
<br />need new words to describe our journey. An art installation usually
<br />connotates a three dimentional, multi sensory experience. We also believe
<br />they are to convey meaning, or help seekers connect with meaning.
<br />
<br />> Can you give me a little more context around your comment on your site
<br />> that
<br />> Danielsjourney is not a "Christian group, church, or alt.worship service,"
<br />> that you are "seeker-insensitive" and "anti-evangelical"?
<br />
<br />Exactly that. Is that not blunt enough? Church too often tries to compete. They try to be, or they literally include, Starbucks, Coke, the Gap, or the Ford SUV line, when that's not what church was supposed to be about, last time I checked. We don't think like most churchgoers and we don't want most churchgoers to show up and try to muck things up. The people we're interested in will never be interested in the church. So we're not that anymore.
<br />
<br />> Where do you see
<br />> yourselves in 10 years?
<br />
<br />Again, I find it somewhat funny that you ask the same question that has been
<br />recently asked of me, also by the same people who questioned the SUV thing.
<br />God willing I could be with Her in 10 years.
<br />
