---
date: '2002-03-10T18:13:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<font color="#993333">“Here’s the deal.”
<br />
<br />Micha paused before she continued, as if she was thinking something. Seeing her son there, for the first time in six years, she felt like a mother again. Almost nostalgic. Soft. The warm fuzzies were washing over her like the slowest, longest orgasm ever. She could just start jittering around in the aisles like those revival fools in Brownsville. Holy orgasm.
<br />
<br />“Can I tell you a story? Like in the old days? You remember that, how I used to tell you stories when you were a kid?”
<br />
<br />GS didn’t have time or capacity to respond.
<br />
<br />No. No. No. Not happening. This is not happening.
<br />
<br />“Ok.”
<br />
<br />One last pause. A look of veiled compassion and honest inquisitiveness is exchanged for one of utter confusion and disbelief.
<br />
<br />“There once was this store. A ‘mom and pop’ store, as we used to say. It was owned by this nice old couple. This nice old jewish couple, not that that means anything. 
<br />
<br />“And there was this young guy who worked at this store. He worked hard for these people, and they showed him no respect. They were nice to everyone but their only employee. They could respect everyone but the one person they were with all day. All day, they jabbed and nagged him.
<br />
<br />“They probably knew that he was an addict.
<br />
<br />“And this addict had a friend. 
<br />
<br />“Less a friend than a mother to a fetus. 
<br />
<br />“And I happen to know that mother. His name is John. I call him Johnny. You have to learn how to treat men so they don’t try to screw you. Literally.
<br />
<br />“Anyway, addict boy was having his umbilical cord pinched, and he was in a pinch. So AB told Johnny some stuff about the jewelry store. Some important stuff.”
<br />
<br />No. No. No. Not happening. This is not happen--
<br />
<br />“I’ve got all the ducks in a row already. I have never done anything this big before, and it requires two people. I’ve never worked with anyone before. But this one is definitely worth it and definitely worth the risk. There is hardly any risk. You know that is my way. I never take risks. That’s why I’m still alive and free. You probly thought that I’d be in jail by now, didn’t you?
<br />
<br />“Didn’t you?”
<br />
<br />“Yea.
<br />
<br />“Yes.”
<br />
<br />“Well I’m too smart for that. Your mom is too smart for that. And you’re a product of me! That’s why you’re so smart!” Micha’s voice reached new heights, a little squeak entering the end of her words like she was a real mother with real children doing real things like scoring a goal at soccer practice or winning second prize at the science fair. Like this was real life.
<br />
<br />No.
<br />
<br />“…[blah blah blah]…”
<br />
<br />This isn’t real life.
<br />
<br />“…[blah blah blah]…”
<br />
<br />No.
<br />
<br />“…[blah blah blah]…”
<br />
<br />I don’t think so.
<br />
<br />“…[blah blah blah]…”
<br />
<br />“Mom, can’t we talk about something normal? For once? Let’s talk about my school, or the weather, or what you had for breakfast for Christ’s sake?!…”
<br />
<br />“Oh. Right. Ok! Great!”
<br />
<br />No.
<br />
<br />“…[blah blah blah]…”
<br /></font>
