---
date: '2002-01-26T01:11:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

January 25, 2002
<br />
<br />We’re on the plane on our way back to Miami. We are both very ready to be back; although I think when we step out of the airport we will be quite unpleasantly surprised at the heat and humidity. We have been enjoying the cold-but-not-too-cold weather in Milan.
<br />
<br />We’ve had a crazy day already. Up at 5:46, after our 11:30 sleep-in yesterday, was quite a shock. Then, because it was so early, our car still had a layer of frost all over the windows. Miriam went to get the car, but came back for a scraper. So I just used my phone card to get the worst of it off and by the time we got going I could mostly see. Then came the wonderful drive to the airport. As I think I surely have mentioned before, the road system in Italy is for shite. It was extremely confusing, but in the end we only ended up taking one wrong turn. We stopped at some gas station/restaurant for directions and poor Miriam almost died in there because it was totally smoky. We got back on the right track and finally saw some signs. Even so it was very sketchy and we didn’t know if we were on the right path for a while. There are these crazy sections where the whole highway has to go on a one lane overpass for a while to merge with the next highway. You know, where in the states it would be a six lane road or something and then the left three go one way and the right three the other. No. One tiny, I mean tiny, sign that doesn’t say much besides autostrada, and that is a little one-lane exit that then goes on for some time, winding this way and that, and then you get on the highway you wanted. At least you hope it was the highway you wanted. Then, praise God Almighty, you see the first sign for the airport. You might actually get to go home today. If you find yourself driving around Milan’s highways and byways all day long, then you know that you actually died last night in your sleep and sorry, but this is purgatory. 
<br />
<br />It took us a long time to find the rental car return upon our arrival at the airport, too. Then when we got the bill, we ended up getting ripped off like crazy. Worse than in Slovakia last November. Only difference is this is Avis so I can call up customer support in the States and complain. But it was about 300 euro more than we thought and the lady there was like, “Talk to Avis; it’s not my problem.” Miriam goes (as I’m thinking it), “You ARE Avis!” (Of course, I was actually thinking “You are fucking Avis,” but that’s beside the point.) 
<br />
<br />So we finally got everything settled. We could’ve had the same seats as last time, bulkhead in the middle, but Miriam wanted to be by the window so we kept our original seats here. There’s a American teenager in front of me so if she puts her seat back, which thankfully she hasn’t yet, I might try to bribe her or something to get her to keep it up. Or I might just watch the movies and not worry so much about it. I’m feeling not-so-claustrophobic today.
<br />
<br />I have very mixed feelings about Italy as we leave it. I wonder why the tourist-interfacing people are such pricks and the real Italians are so nice. I wonder if we tourists have ruined it for those tourist-place-workers. I wonder if they are just in the wrong industry. I wonder if they just tire of their job, so they just stick to the form but not the spirit of it. I don’t know. I stopped caring. Every time I travel I learn once again not to rent a car and hang out with locals as much as possible. Maybe one of these times I’ll remember what I’ve learned.
<br />
<br />There is of course our Utopia. American room to move and breathe and tendency to make things run easier and more smoothly when possible, Italian pizza and carefree style, German interior design and cheese and bread, English graphical design, Slovak prices and food….(to be continued)
<br />
