---
date: '2002-04-01T14:27:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<font color="#993333">“Crazy little fuuu<small>uuuuck…</small>”
<br />
<br />Micha’s voice changed dramatically from jolly to sheepish as GS began to shoot her a very dirty look. The look didn’t even extend to her--he just started to turn his head, and her voice trailed off like a daughter who had just direly interrupted her father’s home improvement project. 
<br />
<br />Turns out this guy makes quite a sport of hunting upper-class dogs. He scopes out a neighbor for days, maybe weeks, before finding the perfect time to go get the dog without getting caught. He has a special serum he brews up in his home chem lab. When it comes time to nab a dog, he loads up a hypodermic and grabs a couple doggie bones. He lures the dog to the edge of its yard with some high talk and the bones, and when it’s close enough, gets it in the neck with the hypodermic full of the super doggie-death concoction. Then he just sneaks back to his little foxhole. 
<br />
<br />This couldn’t happen in any other neighborhood. In other neighborhoods, people know at least a little of each other. They pass each other on their way to work in the morning or while mowing the lawn on the weekend. Word would get around the neighborhood dog community and the surviving dogs would start to give Dog Killing Guy a hard time every time they passed by.
<br />
<br />But this isn’t just any other neighborhood. This is a neighborhood where the minimum net worth is 100 million. People don’t go outside but in their tinted Benz or Rolls. People don’t see their neighbors. They don’t go for walks but on their treadmills in their exercise rooms with their own AC units, before chillin’ for a little bit in their own personal sauna. They sure as fuck don’t mow the lawn. 
<br />
<br />They don’t even look out their windows at their beautiful view of the water and their perfectly maintained-by-illegal-aliens landscaping.
<br />
<br />And so DKG is free to do his thing.
<br />
<br />He’s just lucky some Old Rich Ladies still let their toy dogs out into the yard to take a dump every now and again.
<br />
<br />He’s just lucky some ORL’s don’t have private rooms for their Pomeranians, complete with a doggie entertainment system, exercise course, and a little piece of Astroturf for them to shit upon.
<br />
<br />Some of them do.
<br />
<br />But because DKG is lucky, in that even in his neighborhood there are still some dogs that manage to get outside once and while, he is able to go about his nasty business; and Micha and GS are able to stand outside of his ficus barrier, peering in on his sick enterprise.
<br />
<br />That and because Micha also just happened to be scoping out his place for a while. That and because DKG just happened to be the owner of the jewelry shop that Micha wanted to score.
<br /></font>
