---
date: '2002-04-15T14:40:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<font color="#993333">They change buses a couple of times, but before they finally disembark, GS can see where they've arrived: DKG's neighborhood. Micha leads GS to the corner of DKG's yard, at which point, out of her huge beach bag, she pulls out a large blade.
<br />
<br /><blockquote>mah she tE
<br />
<br /><ol>
<br /><li>a large heavy knife used for cutting sugarcane and underbrush and as a weapon</li>
<br /></ol> 
<br />
<br />dA zha vu
<br />
<br /><ol>
<br /><li>the illusion of remembering scenes and events when experienced for the first time; a feeling that one has seen or heard something before</li>
<br /><li>something overly or unpleasantly familiar</li>
<br /></ol></blockquote>
<br />
<br />Still in a dazed shock, GS is led by Micha to the same spot where they spied on DKG the day prior. Nothing is there this time. Either all of yesterday was a dream, or the dream GS remembers was accurate in that DKG cleans up after his weekend forays. Micha starts to run across DKG's yard, towards the foxhole, and before GS can reach out for her and yell his concerns, she's halfway across the yard and he's forced after her.
<br />
<br />No. NTINH.
<br />
<br />Micha ducks under the walkway overhead of the foxhole and GS isn't far behind her. Suddenly Micha's confidence seems to fade as she looks around for signs of the aforewitnessed serial dog murders. 
<br />
<br />At this point, GS grabs the machete out of Micha's hand and goes right for the door. He knows right where to look for it. He gives it a side kick right in the area of the handle and is amazed when the door jam easily caves in under the weight of his blow and the door swings wide open. What he sees inside is no surprise.
<br />
<br /><blockquote>frE kish
<br />
<br /><ol>
<br /><li>markedly strange or abnormal</li>
<br /></ol></blockquote>
<br />
<br />The dogs, frozen forever in their stiff bliss, staring dead--
<br />
<br />aw, shit--
<br />
<br />ahead, their eyes, head, tail, never to turn again, are lined up along the walls of the room, one after another.
<br />
<br /><center>I'm not sure I've ever been that pissed before.</center>
<br />
<br />GS goes into a screaming--literally--rage at this point, and begins hacking at the nearest mutt, what now just resembles a very hard stuffed animal. 
<br />
<br />Well, it is a stuffed animal.
<br />
<br />Micha sort of shrieks in delight, but also has an honest fear in her voice.
<br />
<br />"Baby, be quiet!"
<br />
<br />The machete, despite being a, well, machete, isn't making much progress on the stiff mutt. Despite repeated strikes with his weapon, GS has only succeeded in the annihilation of some black hair and a little bit of the foam now making up the internals of the dog. 
<br />
<br />Micha steps forward a little bit, towards GS, holding out her hand in The Universal Symbol For "Hold on." 
<br />
<br />"Hey, Baby?"
<br />
<br />GS swings the machete around in the direction of his mother, blinded by his rage and unaware of his surroundings, lost in his prophetic dream of the night prior, about to cut the shit out of DKG.
<br />
<br />Except it's Micha.
<br />
<br />The machete comes up short, and GS's face shows a very strange combination of rage and confusion.
<br />
<br />TUSF "I am crazy."
<br />
<br />Micha can only manage an "Oh, shiiit…"
<br />
<br />Awkward silence.
<br />
<br />GS drops, no, throws, the machete down, and it clangs loudly on the floor. Micha's first instinct is to pick it up, evidence and all, but then she realizes that DKG isn't going to call the cops about the break in at his evil little lair here.
<br />
<br />How do you explain twenty taxidermied dogs?
<br />
<br />Besides, you know those neighbors registered their lost dogs with the police.
<br />
<br />It's a small town after all. A small town of loony millionaires, at that.
<br />
<br />GS says "Let's go" and heads for the door, but Micha hesitates, her spirits back in full effect. Affect? Effect? Yes.
<br />
<br />"Hang on, baby!"
<br />
<br />She spies a lighter on the work table in the middle of the room, and grabs it along with a small tin of some clearish mystery liquid. She heads to the back and quickly pulls one of the dogs off the rack. She pours the liquid over the dog haphazardly and flicks the lighter to life. She drops the lighter on the wet part of the dog.
<br />
<br /><blockquote>ig nIt
<br />
<br /><ol>
<br /><li>to catch fire</li>
<br /><li>to begin to glow</li>
<br /></ol></blockquote>
<br />
<br />In taxidermy, the skin and hair of the animal are dried and preserved using particular chemicals. Then the skin is applied to a mold of the animal created, sculpted, really, out of hard foam, epoxy, clay, or some other such substance. It is glued on using strong adhesives specially made to allow the taxidermist to initially move the skin around, perfectly positioning it on the model, but afterward it hardens and fuses with both the skin and the mold, creating the lifelike end result. 
<br />
<br />When burned, these chemicals, the epoxy, the foam, and the carbon of the preserved skin and hair combine to create a black smoke that, just for comparisons' sake, makes the plastic you threw in the fire as a kid smell like cherry wood. 
<br />
<br />So basically, GS doesn't need many more reasons to convince Micha to get out of that little room full of nasty, toxic smoke.
<br />
<br />However, on their way out the door, Micha grabs two more small tins from the table and quickly overhands one, then the other, toward the smoldering German Shepard on the ground.
<br />
<br />The first canister lands a few feet from the burning dog and spills its contents harmlessly on the ground. The second, from Micha's left hand, looks like it's almost not even going to make it across the room. It's a lame duck which wobbles in a sideways direction, towards the side of the room.
<br />
<br />In reality, though, it ends up landing surprisingly close to the dog, although just a hair farther away than the first. In fact, there were two facts in this little can's favor:
<br />
<br /><ol>
<br /><li>Its manner of flying through the air, and thus landing on the ground, was such that it landed with great force on it's edge--as opposed to evenly on one side or the other, top or bottom, entirely.</li>
<br /><li>It still had its lid on, a lid which violently ejected itself from the can upon impact, thanks to aforementioned fact number one.</li>
<br /></ol>
<br />
<br />Along with the rest of the contents.
<br />
<br />The highly flammable contents.
<br />
<br />Which flew in an amazing and beautiful arc over the burning dog and lit up in a brilliant sword of flame no less than six feet tall and three feet wide.
<br />
<br />The heat from this explosion was enough to light the up-until-now dormant chemicals from the first can, which had covered about eight square feet on the floor for the few seconds it was dormant.
<br />
<br />Now it was a burning fish pond from hell.
<br />
<br />Satan's Jacuzzi.
<br />
<br />The warm pool. The very, very warm pool.
<br />
<br />The initial sword of flame came to rest on about three dogs altogether, immediately transforming them into black burning balls of sickening smoke. Above the pool of flames on the ground were another three dogs, which were a little more slowly, paws and legs first, doing the same. The flames also were making their way up the back wall and onto the ceiling in a very rapid manner. They were in fact licking right across the ceiling, coming across the room like a hand of red, yellow, and orange.
<br />
<br />But by this time GS and Micha were out the door and around the corner.
<br /></font>
