---
date: '2002-02-12T12:36:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Just had a cool worship time. I think it's over but it's kinda weird. I'm downloading Keith Green tunes off of Morpheus and listening to FREAKING KEITH GREEN on my computer. Things like this happen sometime I guess.
<br />
<br />Oh, maybe it was Keith Green, but he was saying the words before they were sung. You know the worship leader thing. Nothing kills my feeling the spirit like that.
<br />
<br />I was having a very cool time. OtR had warmed me up and I started with the Choir's Restore My Soul. Then two OtR songs, I Radio Heaven and The World Can Wait. Then I just worked through my book, a song here a song there, and it was really perfect. At one point it was starting to get bright out and I thought, what time is it? I looked at the clock: 7:17 and I just thought of Miriam. I got goosebumps like crazy. Felt that connection.
<br />
<br />Keith Green is just one of those dudes. He and Rich Mullins were the two most authentic Christian musicians ever. If it were anybody else singing these songs, they'd be super cheese. But it's Keith. So it's real.
<br />
<br />I had all the candles out, too. It was cool. I was still dark outside and I've got a little private shrine going on, singing to the Lord. Funny thing is when I was singing the more standard worship numbers all I could think about was worshiping in a group. I think it might be two things: the way I worship individually has changed a lot. It's still really good to have that quiet time to be with myself, but my true worship has leaked much more into my everyday exsistence. And two, those worship songs, including the ones I've written, are made to be sung in a congregation. That's their purpose. They're as much rah rah group dynamics songs as they are really worship songs. I guess the same could be said of even the Psalms, so I'm not suggesting this is a bad thing. We just have to be cognizant of it.
