---
date: '2002-03-03T22:12:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<font color="#993333">Micha’s son came to visit in January. Perfect time to visit. Not so fucking hot outside all the time. Actually quite pleasant most of the time. Still humid enough for mold to grow in the bleach, though.
<br />
<br />He goes to school at some small but prestigious university in New England. Or is it New York? Pennsylvania maybe? Anyway, it’s not that important. What’s important is that for some reason, after six years of hearing nothing--since he left at 16--he came to find out what’s doing. 
<br />
<br />Honestly, he was just going to wait until he got a call from the police or some lawyer, and he was shocked that he had not received one yet. 
<br />
<br />His brother was down in New Jersey. While two years his senior, brother had been going to school only part time for years. He had a job selling women’s shoes at JCPenny. He had a foot fetish and chances are, without serious mental health treatment--which his JCPenny health insurance doesn’t cover--he is going to work in shoes for his whole life. Every night he comes home from work, or you could say he home comes from work. The pressure build-up from seeing the shape of female feet all day is enough that he makes it home in half the time it takes for him to drive to work. During the summer months, when women are buying sandals, he has to make a private trip to the bathroom or an empty fitting room during the day. The sight of all those toes is just too much.
<br />
<br />Needless to say, he’s got toe much on his mind to worry about his criminal mother down in the swamp.
<br />
<br />So good brother decided he needed to make sure she was still alive.
<br />
<br />Unfortunately, she was.
<br />
<br />She is.
<br />
<br />And thriving.
<br /></font>
