---
date: '2002-04-11T13:32:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Well, my small pronouncement on the mind of God was that if we are created by a God who created this universe, in all its stunning beauty, then we must have been created creative. And any expression of worship - meaning basically a communication between human and divine - must come out of this creativity. Put simply, church should not be boring. It should be a hotbed of creativity, vitality and community. A place where the Arts find their home and where people feel at home. 
<br />
<br />For too long, the church has been reacting to the pressures put upon it by modernity: Explain yourself! Convince us! Reason with us! And, even as our society has moved on from modernity, the church has been left, with fewer and fewer people interested even in the questions - let alone the answers - rattling around in pews studying books and looking for fool-proof arguments. So, while sat in one such pew, with talented people equal in their boredom around me, we decided to step out and do something about it. We weren't sure what it would look like. We had no idea what would actually happen. We simply knew that if we stayed, we would leave faith behind. And if we left, we would stay in the faith. 
<br />
<br />Vaux is the result, so far, of that decision. It does not claim to be the church to end all churches. It does not claim to be a wonderful tool for evangelism. It does not claim to be perfect. It cannot answer all the questions that the establishment fires at it. It cannot always justify itself in well-crafted words. It therefore does not sit with modernity. It is simply a place where we try to express our worship in ways that are true to who we are. And through it I have seen people return to beauty, and give the best of themselves as an offering of worship. 
<br />
<br /><a href="http://www.vaux.net/polO.htm">vaux</a>
