---
date: '2002-03-19T16:23:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

From <a href="http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/006251587X/qid=1016553901/sr=2-1/ref=sr_2_1/002-1976221-6633637">Weaving the Web by Tim Berners-Lee</a>, my current read which I will finish today. Recommend it. Here's a taste of the kind of ideas that interest me....yes, he did make the Web as a model of Real Life!:
<br />
<br />pages 164-165
<br />
<br />The reason we need universality on all these levels is that that’s how people operate in the real world. If the World Wide Web is to represent and support the web of life, it has to enable us to operate in different ways with different groups of different sizes and scopes at different places every day: our homes, offices, schools, churches, towns, states, countries, and cultures. It must also transcend levels, because creative people are always crossing boundaries. That is how we solve problems and innovate.
<br />
<br />Information must be able to cross social boundaries, too. Our family life is influenced by work. Our existence in one group affects that in another. Values and actions are fed by all the ideas from these different areas. By connecting across groups, people also provide organization and consistency to the world. It is unusual for an individual to support environmental policies on a global level but then plan to dump chemicals into the local river.
<br />
<br />My original vision for a universal Web was as an armchair aid to help people do things in the web of real life. It would be a mirror, reflecting reports or conversations or art and mapping social interactions. But more and more, the mirror model is wrong, because interaction is taking place primarily on the Web. People are using the Web to build things they have not built or written or drawn or communicated anywhere else. As the Web becomes a primary space for much activity, we have to be careful that it allows for a just and fair society…
<br />
