---
date: '2002-02-27T15:53:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<font color="#993333">This job she pulled today, for example, is what Micha calls the "soccer mom." After her morning routine--CNN, a pot of coffee, masturbation, and an hour in front of the mirror with Cover Girl--she decides what to do with her day. Today it was cars, so she called up her first car guy. We'll call him Vinnie. She has a system, you see. She has a list of about 20 names--just for cars--and she cycles through that list. One phone call is it and she's on to the next one. If Vinnie hadn't been home today, it would have been on to the next guy. We'll call him Joe. Micha never works with women. Women criminals are all bitches. It would inevitably lead to a fight. Fisticuffs. Why when bitches fight it’s called a catfight she’ll never know.
<br />
<br />Names are constantly on and off the list. So-and-so goes to jail. Vinnie knows of so-and-so who’s reliable. Micha has a set of questions for any new contact. She can sniff out a rat or a pig in two minutes flat. It’s like when <a href="http://images.amazon.com/images/P/0440508363.01.LZZZZZZZ.jpg">Dr. Drew and Adam</a> ask a bunch of stupid questions when new callers dial Loveline. Yeah, just like that. Dumbasses fall for it every time. So your baseball coach felt you up, huh? What position do you play?
<br />
<br />And this is only the cars list. She only does cars about once a week. Vinnie won’t get another call for five months. Hopefully he’s not in jail by then. He’s a pushover. Micha gave him a blowjob once two years ago and he’s been giving her 10% more than anybody else since, hoping for some more head. Truth was, Micha was just in the mood and Vinnie looked like he had a pretty small dick.
<br />
<br />Micha doesn’t own a car or a house. She lives in motels or rentals and borrows a different car every day. Today’s soccer mom was very standard fare. Take the bus to the poor part of town. Try not to look too out of place as the only white person around. Find an apartment building and find the nicest looking minivan in the parking lot. Pull that damn slim jim out from under the back of her blouse--she used to just carry it on the bus but she got sick of the looks. Pop the door--four seconds. Jumps in the van and throws the slim jim on the passenger seat. McDonalds trash on the floor. Slobs. Smells like black people--that combo of dry skin lotion and that shit they put in their hair to keep it from afroing. Micha is the only person in the world who grew up in an all-black neighborhood and became a racist. Scratch that. Micha hates everyone.
<br />
<br />Two more tools come out the pocket--her special screwdriver and a hammer. She puts the screwdriver over the ignition and slams it hard with the hammer. She has a special technique of holding the screwdriver through the steering wheel. That way, if she misses the end of the screwdriver, the handle of the hammer hits the steering wheel before the head slams into her thumb. Nine times out of ten, anyway. This time, however, she’s dead on the first time. Her screwdriver drives deep into the steering column. Now the hard part. She gives it a hard turn and only gets some cracking noise out of the steering column. That could be a good thing. She gives it another hard turn and the engine roars to life. She pumps the pedal a couple of times, knowing if the car stalls out she’s all done. 
<br />
<br />Fuck that crossing wires shit. That’s for the movies.
<br />
<br />Some Brazilian music in the tape deck. That’s nice.
<br />
<br />Crank the AC. It’s hot. Real fucking hot. Gotta get out of this godforsaken state.
<br />
<br />Micha is greatly relieved as she pulls out of the parking lot. The hard part is over. Not that the chances of getting caught are any better--if anyone would call the cops from here, their response time is four times slower than for a call in the white neighborhood. But those poor people will come running out of their place screaming and kicking, sometimes shooting, and Micha hates that. Especially the screaming.
<br />
<br />White people stay where they belong. Inside on the phone.
<br />
<br />An eight block drive quite literally over the tracks to the gated community. Conveniently someone is pulling in. Micha comes in right behind--she just forgot her gate pass. One time this guy stopped right after going through the gate and the gate closed on Micha’s rental. Paranoid old bastard!
<br />
<br />Driving around, it’s slim pickings--all the men drove the good cars to work today. Surely there are some self-respecting women in this place that require a proper vehicle when they go to the hairdresser! There’s a BMW three-series. Who the fuck does that old lady think she is?!
<br />
<br />Gonna have to pick a winner soon. A Lexus. Has to be the top of the line model. Yes.
<br />
<br />Micha pulls into the empty driveway of the next-door neighbor. These places are all the same--the houses are two feet from each other and there are no windows on the sides of them so the neighbor can’t film you screwing your lover at two in the afternoon. Not that you know your neighbor anyway. Just keep talking on the phone. Micha walks across the perfectly manicured lawn to the Lexus next-door. Same routine and in one minute flat she’s pulling out of the driveway. 15 minutes later she’s at Vinnie’s. He’s got that horny glint in his eye. Dumbass. 
<br /></font>
