---
date: '2001-10-24T20:14:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Wednesday, October 24, 2001
<br />
<br />2:00 PM
<br />
<br />More thoughts on Vaux (www.vaux.net) last Sunday.
<br />
<br />Refreshing. Joy-inducing. Validating. 
<br />
<br />It was so great to be with people who immediately understood where we were coming from. Who immediately had knowledgeable responses to what we were talking about. Hopefully we too provided a little insight into what things are like in the States.
<br />
<br />But the ideas that flowed were tré cul. So many amazing things and ideas. Someone who was working on non-linear processing. Another who works with a company in the States boxing up the labyrinth project. Felt his struggles with the marketability of such a thing, but also the joys of royalty checks. 
<br />
<br />Had an amazing worship time and just a quiet reflective and peaceful time. Miriam balled like crazy. I had a million inspiring thoughts. Then we just kinda hung out and next thing you know we've been talking for another hour and we're going to the pub with the core group of people, still just talking about what they all are doing and what we're trying to do, etc., etc.
<br />
<br />Have I used the word great a lot yet?
<br />
<br />More thoughts from being at Miriam's grandparents (maternal) yesterday. I realized, truly realized, the truth about possessions, materialism, greed and money. In a story.
<br />
<br />We showed up and grandfather (starý otec or just otec…pronounced oh-chetz) was asleep, so first we only surprised grandmother. I don't think she shows much drama anyway, so it was hard to gauge her shock level at seeing us show up at her door. But we helped her with drying the dishes and dumping outside the dirty dishwater (major old school, heat the water on the stove and then dump it outside-gotta love it!). And as I came inside, there was otec standing at the top of the stairs (this is a short flight of about three stairs that go down to the kitchen). He looks at me (I'm assuming he didn't see Miriam and grandmother walk by just a few seconds before me) with this look of shock and I say, "Ahoy!" And he goes "You're a miracle!" It is hard to describe the subtle sensitivities of otec's humor but suffice it to say that it was very, very funny. 
<br />
<br />Soon we were sitting again in the kitchen with both otec and grandmother, and he was asking us, "Are you on your way to heaven?" Again there was a subtle element of humor to his comment, but at the same time he had a point (or two). He is old, finds it very hard to breathe an increasing majority of the time; he gets fluid in his lungs and has to take a diuretic medication every day to prevent them from completely filling up and suffocating…however this is apparently the way which his body will finally fail him, and the apparent imminence of this event is the reason for our visit this fall. Indeed, he said "It is so great for us to see each other again while we are still alive." (Remember I'm writing all this from Miriam's translations to me on the fly, so you have to imagine him speaking in Slovak to us.)
<br />
<br />So he's asking us "Are you on your way to heaven," I think, partly because he is old and thinks about death a lot himself, and because of our surprise thinks maybe it really is just a miracle that we're appearing in his kitchen. However he's much more lucid than that. He had a more powerful message to deliver. 
<br />
<br />He says that the Bible says that it is harder for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than a rich man to gain the kingdom of heaven. He said that it is good that we came to Slovakia because it will be easier now for us to get to heaven now that we're with the poor people, so to speak. (Again remember I'm going from the memory of a translation here, but my point is what I learned yesterday and its profundity.) 
<br />
<br />8:36 PM
<br />
<br />…just had a great time in Bratislava that I'll have to catch you up on as soon as I finish that last story…
<br />
<br />He told us this joke/story about two priests in Slovakia. One was named Hlinka and the other Tiso. Hlinka died somewhat earlier than Tiso. He arrived at the gates of heaven, and was denied entry. As he stood there at the gates of heaven wondering what to do, a dirty beggar came to the gates. He knocked at the gates and they asked, "Who's there?" The beggar said, "A beggar," and they let him right in. A next begger came before the gate.  Before he went inside, however, priest Hlinka told him, "You can't go into heaven in those clothes! Here, we'll exchange clothes," and proceeded to switch his nice clothes for the beggar's rags. Hlinka knocked once more at the gates. From inside came, "Who's there?" He said, "A beggar," and they let him right in. As soon as he got inside, Hlinka looked frantically for a telephone. As soon as he found one, he called down to Bratislava to his friend Tiso and said, "Make sure no-one in Slovakia has any money-only beggars get into heaven!"
<br />
<br />{a little Slovak history for those of you who might not know for whatever reason ;) - Hlinka and Tiso were actually both priests and both became government officials in Slovakia before WWII. Tiso was president during the time that Slovakia was a fascist state, just before and during WWII (under Hitler). It was during and after his time that things really went downhill.}
<br />
<br />So here we are tonight and we just happened to see three people who live away from Bratislava but were all in town for some business of another. This was great for us, because now that's two towns, both two hours from Bratislava, that we do not have to drive to. The conversation and company was fantastic with both Samuel Lacho and the Maria and Peter Wiesner. They're some of our dearest friends in all of Slovakia. I said after dinner with Maria and Peter, all my favorite people are in Slovakia, so we have to move here! We talked about how in my dream life we live in Europe and live off of my songwriting (and other writing and things). They said it was closer than we think. I love that. That they would say that. That they would make my heart soar.
<br />
<br />{ "…you may call it an unreasoning optimism, you may call it obtuse; but the fact of the matter is we have…three days…to reach that treasure…" }
<br />
<br />It's funny that culturally, people here are more beat down, hopeless, and lacking a basic integrity that generally grows with a sense of hope (easily seen as a direct result of the communist reign of 40 plus years…actually we just had a long conversation with our hosts Maria and Peter Figura about Slovak history and suffice to say it's complicated, and very interesting!). But the exceptions are so exceptional! They have so much life, love, hope, joy, and they infect those around them with the same. The future and the life of this place is wrapped up in a small percentage of highly trained and covert subversives.
<br />
