---
date: '2002-10-01T21:16:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<i>Believe those who are seeking the truth; doubt those who find it.</i> :: Andre Gide
<br />
<br /><i>The money power preys upon the nation in times of peace and conspires against it in times of adversity. It is more despotic than monarchy, more insolent that autocracy, more selfish that bureaucracy. It denounces, as public enemies, all who question its methods or throw light upon its crimes.</i> :: Abraham Lincoln
<br />
<br /><i>No truly sophisticated proponent of repression would be stupid enough to shatter the facade of democratic institutions. </i>:: Murray B. Levin
<br />
<br /><i>The spirit of resistance to government is so valuable on occasion that I wish it to be always kept alive...What country can preserve its liberties if its rulers are not warned from time to time that its people preserve the spirit of resistance.</i> :: Thomas Jefferson
<br />
<br /><i>If you think you are too small to make a difference, try sleeping with a mosquito.</i> :: Anita Roddick
<br />
<br /><i>When people have lost their authentic personal taste, they lose their personality and become the instruments of other people's wills.</i> :: Robert Graves
<br />
<br /><i>Every minute in front of a TV camera doing an interview is a minute wasted.</i> :: Paul Ford
<br />
<br /><i>Hype is the glittering rhinestone on the jumpsuit of mediocrity that catches our eye and makes us think, "Hey maybe the Spice Girls don't suck." It's the triumph of substance over style, predicated on the sad truth that most of us, if the gift-wrapping on the outside of the box is fancy enough, we won't notice that inside there's nothing but a big pile of dung.</i> :: Dennis Miller
