---
date: '2002-05-01T17:27:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<font color="#993333">About the time the sun was going down, Micha and Johnny were sitting at a sidewalk café just across and up from the jewelry store. Their black-haired accomplice came out the front doors, looked up and down the street for Micha and Johnny but not seeing them, and locked them. He walked in their direction but still did not see them, ducking down an ally near the shop that headed in the opposite direction from where they were sitting. Micha pretended not to see him and continued to sip her coffee. Johnny new she had, though. 
<br />
<br />The tension level in their auric sphere had just gone up a notch.
<br />
<br />About a half hour later, Micha finished her coffee, said it was time to go, and stood up.
<br />
<br />Johnny was on a roller coaster, at the top of the first hill, at his local theme park. Robber’s World. He wanted so badly to get off that coaster. He wished so much he hadn’t begged and begged to ride it. He wished so much he had been shorter, too short to ride it. He wished so bad that he had just climbed straight through the coaster-car when it was his turn, just jumping right across to the exit platform instead of sitting down and letting that yellow-padded steel retraining bar come down over his shoulders. But he hadn’t. He was here. Along for the ride. And the first cars were starting to head over the crest of that hill.
<br />
<br />Micha led the way <i>away</i> from the jewelry shop, much to Johnny’s surprise.
<br />
<br />Hey, it’s barely dark out. What were you thinking?
<br />
<br /><center>Me, thinking?</center>
<br />
<br />Micha walked around the area, down a couple residential streets nearby, seemingly looking for something. Finally she found it.
<br />
<br />Parked on the street in front of a house in said nearby residential area was one of those Home Depot pickup trucks that you can rent by the hour or day. 
<br />
<br />Let’s hope they’ve rented it for the day. Let’s hope they won’t notice/mind its disappearance until…would tomorrow morning be ok with you?
<br />
<br />There was a lot of commotion coming from the back of the house it was parked in front of.
<br />
<br />i.e. They just finished moving/installing Jacuzzi/picking up entertainment center/repairing old rotted fascia board/putting in brick-paved walkway down the side of the house and were now enjoying some cold ones out back.
<br />
<br /><center>And let’s hope they don’t have guns.</center>
<br />
<br />Micha walks up to the truck, opens the unlocked door, and says to Johnny, still standing in the road at this point, “Get in.” By the time Johnny is getting into the truck, Micha’s already got it started. The keys were in the ignition. The truck starts up rather loudly, much to Johnny’s anxiety’s loathing, and they rumble down the street. 
<br />
<br />Micha drives around for a while. “Figured I’d do some advertising for Home Depot since they were nice enough to loan us this here truck”. After what seems like hours, 25 minutes, she drives a careful route back to the jewelry shop area and parks in a nondescript parking lot around the corner from the back ally of the shop. At first, Johnny doesn’t even realize where they are.
<br />
<br />Micha has traded in her beach bad for a real canvas gym bag. It’s full of a bunch of heavy tools she figures she’ll need for the job. She leads Johnny down a side street and then into the ally behind the jewelry shop. Every move she makes seem purposed, destined, full of intention, drive, and confidence.
<br />
<br />Two quick looks for any potential onlookers and Micha tries the back door to the shop. It’s unlocked. Good boy.
<br />
<br />They both sneak quickly into the back room of the shop. It is a small room, gray mostly, and there are no windows at all. There is one gray, solid looking door into the main showroom. There are some filing cabinets and drawers along the right side of the room and a table with a medium-sized safe on it along the left side of the room. 
<br />
<br />Micha closes the door behind them and takes a big breath. She’s still unusually quiet and focused. She heads for the safe and puts her bag on the ground near the table. She unzips its long zipper slow and calculated like. Out of the bag she pulls an extra-sized crowbar, and she proceeds to get the tip of that crowbar right between the door and the body of that safe. 
<br />
<br /><center>Wow.</center>
<br />
<br />But then she starts to crow. Pry. Whatever you call it.
<br />
<br />I’ll tell you what, this woman has some strength in her. That safe is jostling all around on top of that table, crowbar sticking out from the between its door and its body. You’d hate to be a man in her hands.
<br />
<br />After about five long minutes without any luck--she can get the door pried open just a little bit, but can’t get the mechanism to pop--Micha wakes Johnny out of his shock/sleep: “Get over here and help me!” 
<br />
<br />Johnny, woken from his shock/sleep, jumps/comes to Micha’s aide. Except he’s not as strong as she is. He grips the crowbar and give it a weird tug/twist, and manages to get the tip/crow-part of the crowbar inside the safe, the door open just the width of the crowbar body now. In other words, stuck. Micha grabs the tool back from him and tries this new angle, but it is no use. The safe has essentially swallowed the useful part of the crowbar. 
<br />
<br />Johnny returns into his near-catatonic state while Micha returns to her bag for more useful/plan B tools. She pulls out a cordless power drill with a not-small metal bit.
<br />
<br />“Ree-ree.”
<br />
<br />She proceeds to place the drill on the side of the body of the safe, close to the door. This is supposedly where the locking mechanism is. This is supposedly just like the car ignition, but on steroids.
<br />
<br />Oh, and by the way, that tension level in the auric air now filling this small gray back room of some jewelry store with bad security? Yeah.
<br />
<br />“Ree-ree” Micha drills into the side of the safe, quite successfully in fact. Little metal filing come spinning out of the ever deepening hole she’s making in the side of this thing. By the time she’s done there’s quite a little pile on the table under her hole.
<br />
<br />Oh, and by the way, “by the time she’s done?” Yeah.
<br />
<br />You know how when you’ve drilled all the way through something the “ree-ree” gets higher pitched because the drill is spinning without any resistance anymore? Yeah.
<br />
<br />No. That ain’t happening here.
<br />
<br />You know that “ruh-ruh” when the electric motor of the drill can’t turn the bit anymore because it’s come up against something stronger than it is? Yeah.
<br />
<br />That’s what’s happening here.
<br />
<br />The drill stops turning somewhere in there. “Ruh-ruh.”
<br />
<br />“Shit.”
<br />
<br />Micha leaves the drill sticking out of the side of the safe and tries the crowbar one more time for completeness sake. Just in case.
<br />
<br />Nuh-uh. No. No joy. Not this time.
<br />
<br />That tension level? How many notches do we have before we top out here?
<br />
<br />Micha’s calm/cool/confident side that had been predominant up until this point? Yeah.
<br />
<br />She kicks the table, shoves the safe, kicks the wall, etc., etc.
<br />
<br />“Shit! Shit shit shit shit shit!!!!
<br />
<br />“Johnny, go get the car!”
<br />
<br />”What?” Johnny’s near-catatonic state? Yeah.
<br />
<br />“Get that fucking truck!”
<br />
<br />Gone. Replaced by: adrenaline. Replaced by: immediate response to authoritative command. Replaced by: compliance.
<br />
<br />Johnny is out the door before everything begins to register again, running down the ally and out into the side street. He gets to the Home Depot truck, starts it up, and drives it back to the narrow ally. It barely fits. For some reason, by instinct maybe, he backs it down the ally to the door of the jewelry shop. By the time he’s coming up to the door, Micha is coming out of it with a big metal hook attached to a metal cable. She’s struggling to get the hook onto the bumper of the truck, and Johnny gets out of the truck to see what’s happening/assist maybe. 
<br />
<br />Micha’s somehow got that cable attached to four points on the door of that safe. The body of the safe is being held by another cable, connected to a portable winch, which is also somehow already attached to the floor/wall behind the safe. 
<br />
<br />“What the…? How did you…? …?”
<br />
<br />‘…?’, by the way, is the Universal Literary Symbol for Jaw-Open Confused Look.
<br />
<br />Micha gets the hook onto the bumper of the rolling Home Depot advert. 
<br />
<br />“Get inside and be careful.” Micha tells Johnny in a stressed-out mother’s voice.
<br />
<br />Johnny goes inside through the half-propped-open-by-the-cable door and Micha gets into the truck.
<br />
<br />Johnny can hear the engine rev up.
<br />
<br />“Ruh-ruh.”
<br />
<br />Except really loud.
<br />
<br />The carbon monoxide fumes shoot straight into the room.
<br />
<br />It’s practically poetic.
<br />
<br />It’s practically a civil war narrative.
<br />
<br />It’s practically a World War II documentary.
<br />
<br />It’s practically nowhere near Tom Hanks eating really good at the catering table after shooting a major death-and-suffering scene on his way to making however many million dollars saving some Private Ryan.
<br />
<br /><center>What about private Johnny?</center>
<br />
<br />Micha peels that pickup down that narrow ally as fast as it will go from zero and that tiny bit of slack in that metal cable connecting that truck to that safe gets taken up that fast. That safe gets yanked off that table in a sideways direction towards the door. It doesn’t even hit the floor, although it grazes Johnny standing just almost in the very wrong place, on it’s way to slamming against the doorframe at the back of this little jewelry shop.
<br />
<br />That winch holding the body of that safe to that wall? Yeah.
<br />
<br />No possible way.
<br />
<br />The impact is so violent that some of the drywall turns back into dust and fills the air with gray powder. This combines nicely with the carbon monoxide fumes.
<br />
<br />However the desired result is reached. Sort of. The door frame holds up against the body of the safe, but the door of the safe is just right to be pried off the body by the force of the Home Depot. That safe door just comes flying off, drug behind the truck now, and the contents of the safe go sprawling out all over the ally.
<br />
<br />Contents of safe: cash, paperwork, gold, silver, and diamonds.
<br />
<br />Contents of safe: floating around in the air, bouncing on the ground, pinging off the wall opposite the store.
<br />
<br />It’s like a war movie meets one of those movies where tons of cash ends up floating down from some tall building where the bad guy and the good guy both had one hand on the briefcase and then the briefcase opens up and the money all flies out towards the crowd waiting below to grab at it aimlessly.
<br />
<br />Johnny’s standing there in his gassy dust cloud, watching the money float around in the air, watching the diamonds bounce off the brick wall across the ally.
<br />
<br />Then watching the brick wall across the ally flash. Flash red. Flash blue. Red. Blue. Red. Blue.
<br />
<br />Red. Blue.
<br />
<br />Then hearing a voice over a public address system, not the good kind used at concerts, the kind attached to the grills of cars.
<br />
<br /><center>Welcome to Taco Bell. Would you like to try our new Club Chalupa?
<br />
<br />Charlie Brown’s teacher.</center>
<br />
<br />Ma’m, step away from the vehicle.
<br />
<br />Red. Blue. Ma’m, step away from the vehicle. Cash floating. Diamonds bouncing. Jewelry store documents falling into puddles on the ally road, their records being erased by the effect of water on ink.
<br />
<br />Red. Blue. Ma’m, step away from the vehicle.
<br />
<br />Red.
<br />
<br />Blue.
<br />
<br />..
<br />
<br />Red.
<br />
<br />..
<br />
<br />Blue.
<br />
<br />..
<br />
<br />White.
<br /></font>
