---
date: '2002-08-05T02:21:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<i>How do I keep having these gawddammed political discussions???</i>
<br />
<br />Yes, it happened again. And it seems I'm always pissing someone off, I'm either being called an intellectual liberal blah blah blah by a conservative or an simpleton conservative by a liberal. And I think I'll continue to use the word liberal, despite the fact that half the discussion was over the semantics of the word, because all I've figured out so far is that liberals <i>think</i> they have it figured out, but conservatives <i>know</i> they've figured it out. 
<br />
<br />I, of course, will <i>never</i> figure it the f$$k out.
<br />
<br />But today I was comforted by some of the words over at <a href="http://theyblinked.blogspot.com">theyblinked</a>:
<br />
<br /><i>...one such questioner was incredulous at my verbal posture as if somehow my words and motivations were unnecessarily complex and situationally arrogant. my response is always rather simple. i don't think for anyone's pet constituency. i don't carry a banner of revolution for any particular messianism. i speak out of the stories within which i find myself for a community that, due to my trans-cultural mongrel upbringing, is a bit more diverse than many are comfortable with.
<br />
<br />in language that is perhaps less obtuse all the while pregnant with an ambiguity far more profound: it is all about the other kingdom. 
<br />
<br />...for the first time in my life 
<br />i feel like it is truly inevitable 
<br />that i will not only be disappointed by, 
<br />but will be a very real disappointment to people 
<br />
<br />...the quickest way to not disappoint is to pretend. 
<br />i am just not willing to do that anymore.</i>
<br />
<br />
