---
date: '2002-04-01T14:38:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Tried to go on the club ride on Saturday. Went to get my bike and i had a flat tire. Yes, I could've fixed it and MAYBE made the ride, but it just took the air out of my tires, you know what I mean? Anyway I was up anyway so I just worked on my site for a couple hours.
<br />
<br />So I fixed the tire later on Saturday and everything seemed tip top with the bike. Sunday morning I was hungover and if I was going to get up at 6:30 that would have made for 4 hours sleep, so no club ride.
<br />
<br />This morning I was EXTRA determined to go on a ride, but again, when I went out in the garage to get the bike, now the OTHER tire was flat. This time I didn't have a club ride to catch, so I started about fixing the tire. 
<br />
<br />Now Saturday, I had gotten four new tubes. My flat problem is mostly because I'm dealing with ancient tubes and the rubber is just worn. So I got two tubes that fit (supposedly) my one set of tires, and another 2 tubes for my other (skinnier) tires. (I have kinda fat tires on my racing bike right now, because I noticed roads here aren't the best.) Saturday the one tube for this size tire went on without too much problem. But this morning the other tube just would not work with this rim/tire. The area around the stem is too fat and the stem won't poke out of the rim. It's an aero rim so it's a bit wider than normal, and this tube is a bit fatter than normal. So it appears I'm screwed. I need a special long stem tube or something...
<br />
<br />Bullocks!
