---
date: '2002-07-29T13:47:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Got this cul poem sent to me this week, in response to <a href="http://www.sevenmagazine.org/archives/2002_07_01_index.html#78683998">something I wrote</a>:
<br />
<br />by <a href="http://hometown.aol.com/kfbofpql/LEngl.html">Madeleine L'Engle</a>
<br />
<br />LOVE LETTER 
<br />
<br />I hate you, God. 
<br />Love, Madeleine. 
<br />
<br />I wrote my message on water
<br />and at bedtime I tiptoe upstairs
<br />and let it flow under your door.
<br /> 
<br />When I am angry with you
<br />I know that you are there
<br />even if you do not answer my knock
<br />even when your butler opens the door an inch
<br />and flaps his thousand wings in annoyance
<br />at such untoward interruption
<br />and says the master is not at home.
<br />
<br />I love you, Madeleine, 
<br />Hate, God.
<br />
<br />(This is how I treat my friends, he said to one great saint.
<br />No wonder you have so few, Lord, she replied)
<br />
<br />I cannot turn the other cheek
<br />it takes all the strength I have 
<br />to keep from hitting back.  
<br />
<br />the soldiers bayonet the baby
<br />the little boys traple the old woman
<br />the gutters are filled with groans
<br />while pleasure-seekers knock each other down
<br />to get their tickets stamped first. 
<br />
<br />I'm turing in my ticket
<br />and my letter of introduction
<br />you're supposed to do the knocking. 
<br />
<br />How can I write to you
<br />and tell you that I'm angry
<br />when I've been given the wrong address 
<br />and I don't even know your right name?
<br />
<br />I take hammer and nails
<br />and tack my message on two crossed pieces of wood
<br />
<br />Dear God,
<br />is it too much to ask you
<br />to bother to be?  
<br />Just show your hindquarters
<br />and let me hear you roar. 
<br />
<br />Love, 
<br />Madeline 
<br /></i> 
<br />from  The Irrational Season
<br />
