---
date: '2002-06-17T13:30:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Angel #1:
<br />
<br />Miriam is perfect for the foreign service. I don't think that anyone who knows her at all well could say they wouldn't agree with me, either. She speaks 5 languages! She's actually from another country. She walked around communist Czechoslovakia as a child going, "I'm going to live in America someday." (Making those around her pretty nervous!) Well, here she is; and she's about to <i>work for</i> America.
<br />
<br />She's the most organized person I know. She can negotiate her produce at Publix. All her friends call <i>her</i> up when they need to talk and feel understood. 
<br />
<br />Diplomacy? Yeah. 
<br />
<br />She's got a degree in finance. She got, like, a 4.5 gpa. She's a genius with money. She got he college paid for, then took the extra money she saved by careful living and invested it while interning at a brokerage. She turned that over a few hundred percent and it became the down payment for our house. She paid extra into the house the whole time we lived there, so that when we sold it last fall we got a nice little check. She keeps the coolest excel spreadsheet of every single income and expense so that we can see exactly where we can save, and what things set us back. It has all these calculations so we can see the bottom line every month, year, or even our whole marriage (4+ years now!).
<br />
<br />Economic department? Yeah.
<br />
<br />Like I said, she is perfect for this job.
<br />
<br />Colin, take good care of her! ;)
