---
date: '2002-06-30T01:33:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

We arrived in DC today. Pretty uneventful road trip all and all. Saw one huge, old truck with the "<a href="http://www.changingtheclimate.com">Changing the Climate</a>" bumper sticker on it. Hard to tell if the owner of the truck actually put it there next to the female silhouettes him/herself or if they just didn’t care. It is of course possible that he/she hadn’t noticed it yet.
<br />
<br />Who am I kidding. It was a he.
<br />
<br />Also ate at this grocery store, and above the eating area (with the tables and chairs and all) was a huge framed picture of a extraordinarily Anglo-looking red brick church. Under the picture were the words:
<br />
<br /><blockquote><font face="arial">LET’S ALL GO TO OUR PLACE 
<br />OF WORSHIP THIS WEEKEND.</font></blockquote><p>Let’s just say it definitely wasn’t a mosque in that picture. Or a temple. Or nature. Or the Gravatt’s apartment...
<br />
<br />The place we’re staying is fine. I might have to get dialup. This "business center" is three windows machines with a printer. OK bandwidth (probly DSL), but not very useful to me if I can’t get my computer connected. I gave up my DSL 6 days ago and have been too busy to go through withdrawal just yet. But we’ll see how this week goes. Anyway, otherwise this is just like living out of a bigger hotel room for a few months...whatever...
<br />
<br />Definitely not as hot here. Not as humid. Sorry everyone who said it was just as bad. I knew you were kidding. Also there are three places to get good Italian coffee nearby and only one of them is Starbucks! Praise the Lord!
<br />
<br />Listening to Sigur Ros right now. Even through laptop speakers it’s pretty moving stuff. 
<br />
<br />This is the beginning of the isolation?
<br />
<br />Maybe.
<br />
<br />But surely some decent art might arise out of it.
<br />
<br />Maybe I had always just felt connected technologically and now it’s time to actually be connected spiritually.
<br />
<br />Oh, which PS also reminds me. 
<br />
<br />I don’t know how anyone could do this alone. I am so lucky to have Miriam. The world could go away and if she was still here with me I would be OK.
<br />
