---
date: '2002-02-14T18:03:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

PILGRIMAGE LANDSCAPES  
<br />Stories from the Life and Work of Mark & Lisa Scandrette
<br />JANUARY 2002
<br />
<br />
<br />THE ARTIST’S WAY
<br />
<br />In the First week in January we began a group that meets at our house we are 
<br />calling The Artist’s Way. A group of 20-30 visual artists, musicians, 
<br />film-makers and cultural creative types meet on Sunday nights for a meal and 
<br />discussion on how to develop a life in the way of Jesus as a creative person. 
<br />We are each going through a 12 week creative recovery workbook that stresses 
<br />the connection between creativity and spirituality. God made us in his image 
<br />to live creatively in his way. Each person is also practicing a common daily 
<br />spiritual discipline: keeping a morning journal of thoughts and prayers. It 
<br />has been fun to see how this group is helping one another discover a deeper 
<br />and more integrated life of faith. This group is the pilot for the kinds of 
<br />groups we hope to share with non Christian friends in the Spring or early 
<br />summer. 
<br />
<br />THE BAHAMAS
<br />In January, Lisa and I experienced the trip of a lifetime to celebrate our 
<br />10th wedding anniversary. God blessed us with an all expense paid trip to the 
<br />Bahamas. We were hosted by New Providence Community Church in Nassau and 
<br />spent time networking with other ministers and missionaries--and also went 
<br />scuba diving, snorkeling, deep sea fishing and swimming on some of the worlds 
<br />most amazing beaches. We really felt luxuriated by the hospitality of our 
<br />hosts and the natural beauty of the Island. And it was fun to experience new 
<br />foods and a new culture.
<br />
<br />MLK CIVIL RIGHTS CELEBRATION
<br />On the 22nd, I hosted a Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday celebration at a 
<br />community center in the Lower Haight District. We’ve been exploring how 
<br />MLK’s Civil rights work was motivated by his understanding of the Gospel and 
<br />the life and teachings of Jesus. Most people here respect Dr. Martin Luther 
<br />King, Jr., but are not aware that he struggled and sought to be a follower of 
<br />Jesus. 
<br />
<br />CHRIST IN “THE CITY”
<br />Later on in the month I spent two days at a retreat center with our 
<br />Re/Imagine associates--praying and strategizing a vision for our collective 
<br />ministry. As we were meeting, one of my associates, Dieter Zander, directed 
<br />us to the words of the prophet Jeremiah 29: 4-7:
<br />
<br />“This is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says to all those I 
<br />carried into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon: “Build houses and settle down; 
<br />plant gardens and eat what they produce. Marry and 
<br />have sons and daughters; find wives for your sons and give your daughters in 
<br />marriage, so that they too may have sons and daughters. Increase in number 
<br />there; do not decrease. Also seek the peace and prosperity of the city to 
<br />which I have carried you into exile. Pray to the Lord for it, because if it 
<br />prospers, you too will prosper.”
<br />
<br />As this was being read, several of us began to weep --sensing this as a 
<br />description of the Daniel like calling our families have to root into the 
<br />city as followers of Jesus. 
<br />
<br />Last Friday,  Re/Imagine organized a day with Dr. Dallas Willard, author of 
<br />the popular book, “The Divine Conspiracy”. By word of mouth, 160 pastors and 
<br />ministry leaders gathered from across the city. It had been a long time since 
<br />so many Christian leaders had come together in San Francisco, and it was a 
<br />powerful visual of solidarity and encouragement. Especially meaningful for me 
<br />was  conversations with several “old timers”--veteran ministers who have 
<br />been working in the city for over 30 years. 
<br />
<br />I was on a prayer walk yesterday with a group of Seniors from a BGC Church in 
<br />the East Bay Suburbs. Before the walk, I gave them a brief spiritual and 
<br />cultural history of San Francisco.  To illustrate the proud and defiant 
<br />spirit of of the city, I shared this recent quote by our Major Willie Brown:
<br />
<br />“You know I do talk to God regularly. I get down on my knees and I pray and I 
<br />pray--and then God comes to me and says, “Yes, Mister Willie?”  
<br />(SF CHRONICLE January 28, 2002 Matier & Ross B1)
<br />
<br />Later as we walked, talked and prayed, one person said, “I notice you keep 
<br />saying, “Follower of Jesus” rather than “Christian.” I responded saying, 
<br />“We really believe that a big part of Jesus’ message was that his death 
<br />burial and resurrection invites us to enter into his kind of life. In our 
<br />context the word “Christian” is no longer associated with the goodness and 
<br />beauty evident in the lives of committed followers. “
<br />
<br />A book I recently read,   Nickeled and Dimed--On (not) Getting By in America, 
<br />illustrates this common irony. The author, Barbara Ehrenreich, spent time as 
<br />a journalist trying to live on minimum wage in four U.S. cities. At two 
<br />points in the book, Ehrenreich has occasion to comment on her interactions 
<br />with “Christians” First she describes her experience waitressing at a truck 
<br />stop diner in Florida:
<br />
<br />The worst, for some reason, are the Visible Christians--like the ten-person 
<br />table, all jolly and sanctified after Sunday night service, who run me 
<br />mercilessly and then leave me $1 on a $92 bill. Or the guy with the 
<br />crucifixion T-Shirt (“Some One to Look Up To”) who complains that his baked 
<br />potato is too hard and his iced tea too icy (I cheerfully fix both) and 
<br />leaves no tip at all. As a general rule, people wearing crosses or WWJD? 
<br />(“What would Jesus do?”) buttons look at us disapprovingly no matter what we 
<br />do, as if they were confusing waitressing with Mary Magdalene’s original 
<br />profession. (36)
<br />
<br />Later while working as a maid in Maine, Ehrenreich attends a tent revival 
<br />meeting, and shares some incisive comments about the message she heard there:
<br />
<br />The preaching goes on, interrupted with dutiful “amens.” It would be nice if 
<br />someone would read this sad-eyed crowd the Sermon on the Mount, accompanied 
<br />by a rousing commentary on income inequality and the need for a hike in the 
<br />minimum wage. But Jesus makes his appearance here only as a corpse; the 
<br />living man, the wine-guzzling vagrant and precocious socialist, is never once 
<br />mentioned, nor anything he ever had to say. Christ crucified rules, and it 
<br />may be that the true business of modern Christianity is to crucify him again 
<br />and again so that he can never get a word out of his mouth...I get up to 
<br />leave, timing my exit for when the preacher’s metronomic head movements have 
<br />him looking the other way, and walk out to search for my car, half expecting 
<br />to find Jesus out there in the dark, gagged and tethered to a tent pole.” 
<br />(68-69)
<br />
<br />Whether Ehrenreich’s perceptions are offensive to us or fairly accurate, it 
<br />seems that the watching world is waiting to see the followers of Jesus both 
<br />trusting him as the way to eternal life and the way in life. 
<br />
<br />At all times there are people and communities for whom Jesus is both Savior 
<br />and visible Lord. Aristedes (117-138 A.D.), a non-believing observer had this 
<br />to say in defense of Christians in his time:
<br />
<br />“Christians love one another. They never fail to help widows; they save 
<br />orphans from those who would hurt them. If a man has something, he freely 
<br />gives to the man who has nothing. If they see a stranger, Christians take him 
<br />home and are happy, as though he were a real brother. If one of them is poor 
<br />and there isn’t enough food to go around, they fast several days to give him 
<br />the food he needs. this is really a new kind of person. There is something 
<br />divine in them. “ 
<br />
<br />We hope to become the kind of Christians and help others become the kind of 
<br />Christians for whom this can be said--people who live in the power and love 
<br />available in Jesus.  
<br />
<br />Re/IMAGINE!
<br />Mark A. Scandrette
<br />3166 25th St. 
<br />San Francisco, CA 94110
<br />415.235.9552
<br />415.824.7683
<br />
