---
date: '2002-04-04T00:25:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

i don't know when greenbelt might run this so here's a little ditty for you all:
<br />
<br />[the unamerican] 2
<br />
<br />last week my father-in-law bought a new boat. here in south florida boats are a very big deal. it’s kind of a double-edged sword: on one hand, the water is the main source of natural beauty and enjoyment down here; on the other, boats are prohibitively expensive for all but a few. a third edge is this: from a boat, in south florida, the world seems like it is inhabited entirely by millionaires. every house you see is not just a nice house on the water. it is a dire exhibition of gross abandon, a sick display of disgusting amounts of money, a message to the world that says:
<br />
<br /><center><b>you will never earn enough money. 
<br />you are not a success until you have this.</center></b>
<br />
<br />‘this’ being a 20 room mansion on a piece of property on which the taxes alone amount to the GNP of a small African nation. gold fixtures. four car garage. brick paved driveway. big ass boat out back. pool, jacuzzi, and a sauna (never mind just being outside down here is the same thing). private room for a small, useless dog of some kind.
<br />
<br />so my brother-in-law took us out on the boat this afternoon.
<br />
<br />we were on our way back when a boat going the other way caught our eye. on its side were emblazoned the letters: WWJD. there was also not one, but an entire school of those little christian fish painted on the side of the boat.
<br />
<br /><center><b>JWOB.</b> Jesus Wouldn’t Own a Boat. that much, considering his track record on material gain and property ownership, is fairly certain. he did hang out with boat owners, though, so i guess i’m still ok going out on somebody else’s…even if fishing in these depleted seas is a joke.</center>
<br />
<br />this on-boat message took the entire fish culture phenomenon to a new level. for about five years now, there has been a battle on america’s streets between. first there was the fish. then the darwin fish-with-legs. then the jesus fish, this time bigger, eating the darwin lizard. this tit-for-tat battle played out on the backs of range rovers and lincoln navigators across this great land has carried on through a multitude of variations, bringing much needed relief to a once struggling car-bumper paraphernalia industry. 
<br />
<br />this was, of course, all but wiped out by the american flag sensation following september 11. so it was good to see someone staking out some more vehicular real-estate on the side of that boat today. 
<br />
<br />go team.
<br />
<br />the entire ‘earn’ thing plays itself out here daily in the everyman’s struggle to afford and maintain a ‘better’ home. my friend, scott, and i have both been recently questioned about our deliberate avoidance of this particular ladder (we both rent ‘small’ apartments--anyone in any other country or new york city would laugh out loud at this description, however): “why do you rent when you could own a home?”
<br />
<br />scott put it best when he replied:
<br />
<br /><center><b>“Because I could care less about the American Dream.”</center></b>
<br />
