---
date: '2002-06-23T17:33:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

reviewed my archives today, if you know what i mean...so...my life in blog:
<br />
<br />...
<br />
<br />"Current theology: Psalm 1 meets Romans 7 and creates me
<br />Weather: just a shade too hot to say perfect
<br />Coffee: lots
<br />Outlook: optimistic"
<br />...
<br />
<br />"i would go to sleep but i don't want to dream anymore"
<br />
<br />...
<br />
<br />"miriam, you are the most amazing person in the whole world. i hope everyone can get it that you are perfect and i am eternally happy with you. like we've said to each other, heaven had better include staying with your soul mate because otherwise we're not interested! :)  being with you is the best thing i could ever imagine and i want to be with you eternally. forget just in this lifetime! you are so beautiful, sexy, smart, full of wit and humor, sly, bold, wise...your aura shines brighter than all and i bask in it daily. i can't be long w/o its light. you attract all to you and i am privileged to be your husband."
<br />
<br />...
<br />
<br />"last may i drempt that i lost my job. in august i lost my job. last october i drempt that the company went under and i was hosed with a ton of unpaid invoices and expenses from my consulting contract.
<br />
<br />
<br />i normally wouldn't give that much creedence to things. but the two dreams occurred in the same exact place.
<br />
<br />
<br />and that place was Bratislava. same apartment, same bed. same weather (almost).
<br />
<br />
<br />if the second one turns out to be also prophetic, then there's a lesson to be learned: don't dream in Bratislava."
<br />
<br />...
<br />
<br />"the problem down here in sofla is simply one of haves and have-nots. not in the normal sense though.
<br />
<br />
<br />more in the sense haves-$500,000,000 and have-nots-$500,000,000.
<br />
<br />
<br />that sense that you need to achieve more more more which means earn more more more which means have more more more is totally ingrained in almost every American psychie.
<br />
<br />
<br />but throw in multi-million dollar houses and lifestyles all up and down the beach and the intracoastal and the stress becomes a bit much for the Average Striving Joe.
<br />
<br />
<br />so the ASJ takes it out on things and people. takes it out on his gas pedal. takes it out on the cyclist enjoying an unusually cool day on A1A.
<br />
<br />
<br />until it becomes second nature. and we're all just taking it out on one another. we don't mean to be mean and hateful. it just comes naturally after years of being reminded that you haven't yet made enough.
<br />
<br />
<br />oh yeah, you'll also very naturally go into debt for the bigger house and the luxury SUV."
<br />
<br />...
<br />
<br />"Dr Melphi says:
<br />we are going to hell
<br />Dr Melphi says:
<br />all of us
<br />follow the arrows says:
<br />yes.
<br />follow the arrows says:
<br />i bet they don't even have eco domani and brie there either"
<br />
<br />...
<br />
<br />"today i had the thought that the world IS going to hell, and i'm ok with that
<br />
<br />
<br />i was just standing there, pumping gas, and it occurred to me.
<br />
<br />...but i realized that i'm also just feeling that universal depression that people are feeling right now because it's after the holidays, the weather isn't great, it's kind of a lul in life right now. and that's ok.
<br />
<br />
<br />it doesn't mean that we're going to hell. it just means we live on earth."
<br />
<br />...
<br />
<br />"sometimes you just have to disconnect to do anything. i'm always plugged in. reading this. reading that. getting this. hearing about that. experiencing this. seeing that. what's the deal? did you hear? have you seen? didn't you know? ohmygosh! that is so cool! you've GOT to see it! you've GOT to read it!
<br />
<br />
<br />every day i could spend all day just looking at the stuff i've been sent or been told about or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, 
<br />
<br />
<br />it's no wonder no-one visits your site
<br />
<br />
<br />but that's ok cuz then i put whatever in this space
<br />
<br />
<br />this is my space
<br />
<br />
<br />and maybe someday, some sicko out there will really connect with it and start reading it.
<br />
<br />
<br />but i won't know.
<br />
<br />
<br />and that's cul.
<br />
<br />
<br />cuz i'm too busy or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to, or surfed to..."
<br />
<br />...
<br />
<br />this was a good couple days...
<br />
<br />"somedays you just wonder why you bothered getting up in the morning. other days you can't hardly bear to go back to bed and can't wait for the next morning to get started again.
<br />
<br />
<br />somedays you want to grab the world by the balls and maul it's head off. other days you run crying into the corner as soon as you hear the world's voice."
<br />
<br />...
<br />
<br />"i wonder every once and while
<br />
<br />about if when i'm old i'll smell like bad perfume and urine too"
<br />
<br />...
<br />
<br />"life is good sometimes...like now"
<br />
<br />...
<br />
<br />"when I say new economy from now on, I mean those of us who don't want to live by the same rules of:
<br />must get ahead, must get ahead
<br />dog eats dog
<br />eye for eye
<br />running the race
<br />being a rat
<br />bigger house car dog penis breasts
<br />smaller nose waistline interest rate"
<br />
<br />...
<br />
<br />"But thank anyone who listened to this posts; you've experienced a little bit of what keeps me alive."
<br />
<br />...
<br />
<br />"I realized the problem with being an artist. You are selling yourself, and selling requires the absorbtion of a lot of rejection. I don't even think it matters that the work is close to my heart or my creation or anything. I would hate selling if I was selling vacuum hoses. I can't stand the rejection. One "no" a day and I'm wiped out emotionally."
<br />
<br />...
<br />
<br />ha ha...
<br />
<br />"who can be an artist? people living off a trust?"
<br />
<br />or off their wives...:)
<br />
<br />...
<br />
<br />"i realized that i shouldn't let myself get ramped up by people telling me things about work, etc. i have to have faith and follow my dreams and take opportunities that are real and present themselves. i can be encouraged by all the contact i've had, but my true self will never be a job i do, it will be the life i lead; and in that sense i can't let myself be led around by this and that fear or excitement. but i'll take the excitement anyway..."
