---
date: '2002-05-26T16:59:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<a href="http://tallskinnykiwi.blogspot.com/">talliskinnikiwiwee</a> <a href="http://www.theooze.com/articles/read.cfm?ID=398&CATID=4">Gripes about home churches</a>
<br />
<br />House Church: 
<br /><table><tr><td width="50%"><b>What's Cool ?</b>
<br />Seating - comfortable
<br />Bathroom Proximity - always close
<br />Music - if its a multi-room party
<br />No sermon - teaching is interactive
<br />DIY Potential - anyone can do it
<br />Size - small is intimate
<br />Cuisine - bring on the love feast
<br />Freedom of Movement - room-floating encouraged
<br />Security - less likely a bomb target
<br />Speed - It could happen tonight
<br /></td>
<br /><td>
<br /><b>What's Lame ?</b>
<br />Seating - no back pew to hide on
<br />Bathroom Proximity - everyone notices
<br />Music - if its an attempt at Kum-By-Ya
<br />No sermon - if you're are a preacher
<br />DIY Potential - if you want to be a paid professional
<br />Size - small is bad for babe-scouting
<br />Cuisine - No more pot-lucks in the church hall
<br />Freedom of Movement - expect to be interrupted by the dog
<br />Security - who took my CD's?
<br />Speed - it could happen tonight in your house
<br /></td></tr></table>
<br />
<br />Doesn't this look better side by side? Gosh HTML is easy.
<br />
<br />My commentary:
<br />
<br /><i>Backwash happens.</i> Yeah. What about sloppy seconds? The church's sperm all in there screwing (<i>sic</i>) your every effort to be fertile. 
<br />
<br /><i>Lets not spill any wine.</i> Yeah. I think the Choir already mentioned this one. You might want to check it out. <a href="http://play.mp3.com/cgi-bin/play/play.cgi/AAIAQhNoCwDABG5vcm1QBAAAAFJywgAAUQEAAABDQ4DMPMh70KiVZ0Ce4XrE9xrR6yA-/Shiny_Floor.mp3">deep link of "Shiny Floor" mp3</a> <small><b>Update</b>: seems to work if you right click and go "save target as" ,,,but i'm not sure mp3.com allows deep linking so <a href="http://artists.mp3s.com/artists/49/the_choir.html">here's their mp3 page</a> scroll waaaay down and look for "Shiny Floor."</small>
<br />
<br />Cheers,
<br />Johnny
