---
date: '2002-07-17T17:07:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

For example:
<br />
<br /><i>Heathrow is the airport of airports. It bustles with activity and bristles with Earth's languages. If a culture has discovered petrol, its people are represented. There is no better place to people-watch. Fat Germans, ululating Swedes, colourfully-dressed Africans, vociferous south Asians, penny-pinching British pensioners...and the sauce-spoilers: Americans. There are no obvious redeeming qualities about these arrogant Cadillac-sized fatballs wrapped in machine washables. Composition: 50% cakehole, 50% Visa; 100% mannerless.</i>
<br />
<br />...<a href="http://thisplacesucks.blogspot.com/2002_05_26_thisplacesucks_archive.html#77058757">...and yes this one is a must read...</a>
<br />
<br /><a href="http://thisplacesucks.blogspot.com/2002_05_26_thisplacesucks_archive.html#77126129">as is this one</a> (or just scroll up)
<br />
<br />and finally (or just scroll up some more):
<br />
<br /><i>Most Jewish women, no matter their size or beauty, seem to share a common body type: a proportionally thin trunk supporting juggernaut breasts flowing into enormous hips which overflow any attempts to clothe them, tapering gracefully to the ground. Chests seem structured such that they are just large enough to precariously nourish a pair of ludicrously oversized breasts, like watermelons hung from a paper clip. Waists are pencil thin. Hips flood from modest waists; suddenly, stunningly, flesh juts to the horizons in the shape of Bailey's bottles.</i>
<br />
<br />i'm still struck by this tragic story that i only know of through the internet.
<br />
<br />a quick <a href="http://www.google.com/search?sourceid=navclient&q=Gene+Kan">google search</a> will provide you just a little bit more info; however the blog really leaves the most intimate mark...
