---
date: '2002-07-30T14:42:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

from the second of <a href="http://www.ptsem.edu/iym/lectures/lectures01.htm#Beaudoin">two very important articles</a> by Beaudoin
<br />
<br />"…living in a world that appears to us daily as irreversibly ambiguous, a particular admixture of sin and grace, exploitation and generosity, getting ahead and giving up, dysfunction and desire, power and peace, depression and delight, rage and recalcitrance. Our imaginations are filled with the soft porn of movies and the sweet visage of the pope or Dalai Lama. We live with the knowledge and helpless feeling that someone somewhere may be suffering because of the way that the coffee we savor or the clothes we enjoy are produced, and we are too busy, tired, or bogged down with our own "issues" to even begin to do anything about it. We live with the suspicion that every preacher and politician and parent may well be deceiving us or themselves, and yet we live with the need to deeply trust these people. We are neither romantic nor well educated about our American past. We will give ourselves in charity but are skeptical about what gets called justice. We know that changing the system is both absolutely necessary and utterly impossible, whether it be the church or secular politics. We know that being psychologically healthy is important, and we know that an overfocus on this issue can make us self-absorbed. We want some guidelines, we want some structure, but we know that for some parts of our lives it is too late, and we don't know what to do with those parts of our lives. We don't want to be judged by others and want to refrain from judging others, yet we also wish that someone would stand up confidently and make some clear judgments about difficult issues. For the most part, we're not going to fight you about whether there is one true religion, one true sexual identity, and one true way of being family. "Who can know for sure?" and "Who am I to judge?" we ask, wanting secretly to know more surely and judge more confidently."
