---
date: '2002-04-05T13:19:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<font color="#993333">she pulled today, for example, is what Micha calls the "soccer mom." After her morning routine--CNN, a pot of coffee, masturbation, and an hour in front of the mirror with Cover Girl--she with her day. for you Today it was cars, so she called up her first car guy. We'll call him Vinnie. S She has a list of about 20 names--just for cars--and s that list. One phone call is it and she's on to the next one. If Vinnie hadn't been home today, it would have been on to the next guy. We'll call him Joe. Micha never. Women criminals are all bitches. It would inevitably lead to a fight. Fisticuffs. Why when bitches fight it’s called a catfight she’ll never know.
<br />
<br />constantly the list. So-and-so goes to jail. Vinnie knows of so-and-so who’s reliable. Micha has a set of questions for any new contact. She can sniff out a rat or a pig in two minutes flat. It’s like when Dr. Drew and Adam ask a bunch of stupid questions when new callers dial Loveline. Yeah, just like that. Dumbasses fall for it every time. So your baseball coach felt you up, huh? What position do you play?
<br />
<br />only the cars list. She only does cars. Vinnie won’t get another call for five months. Hopefully he’s not in jail by then. He’s a pushover. Micha gave him a blowjob once two years ago and he’s been giving her 10% more than anybody else since, hoping for some more. was, Micha was just in the mood and Vinnie looked like he had a pretty small dick.
<br />
<br />Micha doesn’t own a car or a house. She lives in motels or rentals and borrows a different car every day. Today’s soccer mom was very standard fare. Take the bus to the poor part of town. Try not to look too out of place as the only white person around. Find an apartment building and find the nicest looking minivan in the parking lot. Pull that damn slim jim out from under the back of her blouse--she used to just carry it on the bus but she got sick of the looks. Pop the door--four seconds. Jumps in the van and throws the slim jim on the passenger seat. McDonalds trash on the floor. Slobs. Smells like black people--that combo of dry skin lotion and that shit they put in their hair to keep it from afroing. Micha the only person who grew up in an all-black neighborhood and became a ract. Scratch that. Micha hates everyone.
<br />
<br />Two more tools come the pocket--her special screwdriver and a hammer. She puts the screwdriver over the ignition and slams it hard with the hammer. She has a special technique of holding the screwdriver through the steering wheel. That way, if she misses the end of the screwdriver, the handle of the hammer hits the steering wheel before the head slams into her thumb. Nine times out of ten, anyway. This time, however, she’s dead on the first time. Her screwdriver drives deep into the steering column. Now the hard part. She s s only some cracking noise of the steering column. She gives it another hard turn and the engine roars to <b>before</b>. She pumps the pedal a couple of times, knowing if the car she’s. 
<br />
<br />Fuck. That’s for the movies.
<br />
<br />Some Brazilian music in the tape deck. 
<br /></font>
