---
date: '2002-07-07T01:27:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<i>The internet:</i>
<br />
<br />Tried the wireless thing but with no joy. Actually tried it a few feet from a wireless router without luck, so I think it was the card I got (NetGear--same as the router I was very happy with). Anyway, just got dial-up and boy does it suck! I'm really disappointed with both my ISP and the size of the Cold Fusion MX trial download (77M). I barely noticed when I had DSL. Now I'm unable to download it because the connection invariably bombs out at somepoint along the 5+ hour download time...<b>danielsjourney.com</b>, however, loads great at any speed!
<br />
<br />...might have to go ahead with DSL...just don't know how much longer we're going to be in country...and I may only get dial up abroad, so I may need to get used to it...
<br />
<br /><i>On better news:</i>
<br />
<br />the Tour de France started today and we get OLN on our TV! So I will be watching the daily coverage every day! This is the first time in history that the Tour is being broadcast daily in the U.S. (In Europe it has always been shown live daily.) One funny thing already--there was one moment where they left the audio on from the starting gate camera man, and he was going off on someone. Too bad I couldn't understand the French! But it was funny enough to hear his tirade broadcast around the entire world.
<br />
<br /><i>On the EFM (that's Eligible Family Member) front:</i>
<br />
<br />Did some country research today and there are quite a few places I would be quite happy with...mostly Eastern Europe, of course. 
<br />
<br /><i>One more teaser of the future daily serial, just because I wrote it and want to share it already (you'll have to humor me when I repeat it later on):</i>
<br />
<br /><font color="green">Airec is the dark horse. Not literally, of course. That’s a figure of speech. 
<br />
<br />He’s a POC. That’s Paranoid Obsessive Compulsive for those of you not in the know.
<br />
<br />When Airec was 6 (or was it 8?) his mother ditched him for good while they were shopping at a major upscale suburban mall near DC.
<br />
<br />He’s been wandering the malls 5 days a week looking for her ever since.
<br />
<br />There are also a few other things about Airec that are good to know ahead of time.
<br />
<br />He won’t step on street grates. They might give way and cause him to fall a good story and a half, possibly five to six, down into the subway.
<br />
<br />He won’t step foot into a Starbucks. Starbucks is in cahoots with the federal government and the CIA has cameras installed in every Starbucks worldwide. Even Beijing. Especially Beijing. This is why only the most blind can step into a Starbucks. The most resigned. They don’t mind being watched for the consumption duration of their iced grande skim raz latte.
<br />
<br />And there is one more thing: Airec doesn’t need the needle. Literally. He gains enough comfort hanging out with people on the stuff that he doesn’t actually ever feel the need to use himself. He just prefers junkies’ company. He finds their personalities comforting.</font>
