---
date: '2002-04-11T14:36:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

had a rev last night and just going to put down some notes here so as not to forget. will pen something more formal later.
<br />
<br />watching that youth group meeting i thought, this is what christian bands do, they play for groups like these.
<br />
<br />but these groups are not missionological (is that a word?)--they are playing to the people that grew up in the church culture. and anybody from the church culture that brings someone will bring them from their surroundings--mostly the white middle to upper class far removed from the radical life of Jesus.
<br />
<br />because the church is its own culture, it's inbreeding. as it becomes more defined--something that attracts and is supported by many christians (just think about all the lists that show you who you would like in the 'christian' music scene if you like so and so in the 'secular' music scene)--it continues to gentrify, turn in on itself, (inbreed), and become more irrelevant. it stops being missionary. it has made rules for itself--for whatever reasons (protection?)--that actually keep it from accomplishing its original (God given) mission. pretty funny considering all the emphasis on the 'great commision'.
<br />
<br />more notes to self: look at inward vs. outward looking churches (i.e. out=JPUSA), contemporary mission org's (that wouldn't even want to be considered 'christian' ...OtR, djdc); read Threshold again (*scott if yer reading this i have to borrow yers cuz mine is lent out in OH*)
