---
date: '2002-10-09T14:46:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<b>Comment</b>
<br /><i>Providing you the public service of teaching you all the Bosnian I know</i>
<br />
<br />Today I really did <a href="http://www.danielsjourney.com/index.php?archive=2002_10_01_archive.xml&id_pass=82417270"><i>apsurdne posoriste</i></a> in my little 1.5hr class. I acted out each part in full drama...
<br />
<br />I'm calling this one <i>the secret</i>, part 2 in the <i>cheese series</i>:
<br />
<br />Momak Jeden: Gdje je to?
<br /> <i>Dude one: Where is it?</i>
<br />Momak Dva: To je ovdje.
<br /> <i>Dude two: It's here.</i>
<br />1: Da li je to novo?
<br /> <i>Is it new?</i>
<br />2: Da, to je novo.
<br /> <i>Yeah, it's new.</i>
<br />1: To je lijepo.
<br /> <i>It's beautiful.</i>
<br />2: Da, to je vrlo lijepo.
<br /> <i>Yeah, it's really beautiful.</i>
<br />1: Zelim to.
<br /> <i>I want it.</i>
<br />2: Trebas to?
<br /> <i>Do you neeeed it?</i>
<br />1: Da, ja volim to.
<br /> <i>Yeah, I love it.</i>
<br />2: Vidim.
<br /> <i>I seeee</i>
<br />1: Oprostite?
<br /> <i>Excuse me?</i>
<br />2: Da?
<br />1: Sta je to?
<br /> <i>What is it?</i>
<br />
<br />Now I just have to pause to say three things real quick: 1) This whole thing started because I couldn't keep <i>gdje</i> (where?) and <i>ovdje</i> (here) straight in my head, so I had written the first two sentences in my book to help me. Then it just kinda ran. 2) I need to embed Bosnian fonts or something because it really needs the accent marks--not that you would know how to pronounce it anyway! :) and 3) I'm realizing how much this is like Jon's <a href="http://www.sevenmagazine.org/march02/lady.html">Lady in Red skit</a>. What a great influence! The trouper himself! :) ...and the uninvited point 4) The next part was written a day after the first part...
<br />
<br />2: Prekjucer to je bila riba.
<br /> <i>The day before yesterday it was a fish.</i>
<br />1: Sta je bilo jucer?
<br /> <i>What was it yesterday?</i>
<br />2: Jucer je bilo pivo.
<br /> <i>Yesterday it was a beer.</i>
<br />1: Sta je to danas?
<br /> <i>What is it today?</i>
<br />2: To je tajna
<br /> <i>That's a secret.</i>
<br />1: Znam li tu tajnu?
<br /> <i>Do I know that secret?</i>
<br />2: Ne znas.
<br /> <i>You don't know.</i>
<br />1: Znam tajnu.
<br /> <i>I know the secret.</i>
<br />2: Da? Sta je tajna?
<br /> <i>Yeah? What's the secret?</i>
<br />1: To je orah.
<br /> <i>It's a walnut.</i>
<br />2: Ne, ti ne znas tajnu.
<br /> <i>Nope, you don't know the secret.</i>
<br />1: Zar nije to orah?
<br /> <i>Isn't that a walnut?</i>
<br />2: Ne, to nije orah.
<br />1: To je sir.
<br /> <i>It's cheese.</i>
<br />2: Ne, to nije sir.
<br />1: Ja mislim to je sir.
<br /> <i>I know that's cheese.</i>
<br />2: To nije sir.
<br />1: To je sir!
<br />2: Ne.
<br />1: Ja cu to jesti!
<br /> <i>I'm going to eat it!</i>
<br />2: Ti ne zelis to jesti.
<br /> <i>You don't want to eat it.</i>
<br />1: Ja cu to jesti sada!
<br /> <i>I'm going to eat it right now!</i>
<br />2: Ja ne mislim da ti zelis to jesti...
<br /> <i>I don't think you want to eat it...</i>
<br />(Momak to jede.)
<br /> <i>Dude eats it.</i>
<br />1: Fuj! To je strasno!
<br /> <i>Yuk! It's terrible!</i>
<br />2: Vidis?
<br /> <i>See?</i>
<br />1: Fuj!
<br />2: Ja pjevam: "Ti ne zelis to jesti!"
<br /> <i>I sing:</i> (sing) <i>"You don't want to eat it!"</i>
<br />1: Sta je to?
<br />2: Ti trebas vodu.
<br /> <i>You need water.</i> (fetch water)
<br />1: Sta je to bilo?
<br /> <i>What was that?</i>
<br />2: Popij malu vode.
<br /> <i>Drink a little water.</i>
<br />1: To je smece!
<br /> <i>That's trash!</i> (read: shit; but I don't know that word yet)
<br />2: Sada znas tajnu.
<br /> <i>Now you know the secret.</i>
<br />1: To je strasno smece!
<br />2: Da li doruckujes dobro?
<br /> <i>Are you having a nice breakfast?</i> (laugh mockingly)
<br />1: Strasno!
<br />2: Sada idem. Cau!
<br /> <i>Now I go. Ciao!</i>
<br />...
<br />Momak 3: Sta je to?
<br />1: To je tajna....
