---
date: '2002-07-20T17:19:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

So I saw Minority Report last night on a high <a href="http://faithmaps.blogspot.com/2002_06_01_faithmaps_archive.html#78108194">recommendation</a>. Another movie ruined by blatent, unashamed, glorious product placement. The brands managed to mock themselves and get some more exposure all in one fowl swoop. It was so bad that when Tom Cruise walked into a Gap store the entire theatre moaned in collective disgust. Amazing! It might have all been funny and glossingly ironic if it weren't for the large checks no doubt paid to the order of Dreamworks. 
<br />
<br />{I did, however, love the <a href="http://us.ent4.yimg.com/movies.yahoo.com/images/hv/photo/movie_pix/twentieth_century_fox/minority_report/_group_photos/colin_farrell7.jpg">computer interface at precrime</a>. That was very cool. And as far as I could see, it was neither MS or Mac...}
<br />
<br />So if you aspire to drink Pepsi while driving to work in your <a href="http://images.usatoday.com/money/gallery/laauto02/2lexus.jpg">Lexus</a>, wearing a complete Gap clothing ensemble, all of which you purchased with your AmEx Platnium card, this is a great movie for you.
<br />
<br />The message of the movie: you can choose. You can choose to <b>consume!!!</b>. You can <a href="media/ChooseLife.mp3">choose life</a>!
<br />
<br />Another strange thing is happening in movies: commercials. Now it's those stupid slides, some of which are ads for local shops which I don't mind, then <b>commercials</b>, then previews, then movie. For God's sake, I just dropped my load to get into this movie and you're going to show me <b>ads???</b> What the fuck?
<br />
<br />So the brand-saturation and corporate tracking shown in Minority Report is actually not that far off. And that's scary.
