---
date: '2002-05-15T18:17:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<font color="#336699">I'm sorry. I really do apologize. I haven't even introduced myself yet and I've shared way "too much information."
<br />
<br />My name is Timothy James Sutton. I know, it could be a black name, but it's not. I'm white. White as snow. Snow that's had the first three fingers of its right hand ground off.
<br />
<br />I'm 24 years old. I make 1500 dollars a month after taxes; I cancelled my dental insurance after the accident because after that shiny whites weren't going to overshadow my lack of complete digits. And I don't mean a phone number. Although I haven't had one of those for about 7 months. I never did have health. Unfortunately I never got around to <a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/hi/english/entertainment/newsid_554000/554103.stm">insuring my ass for billions</a>. If I had I'd probly have three fingers all better than the other 7 originals.
<br />
<br />My rent is 1350. I live in one room. Kitchen is one corner, living another, bedroom another, entry the fourth. I could really use another corner for the den, but a fifth corner wouldn't leave any money for the generic corn flakes, Raman, and canned beans that make up my daily diet.
<br />
<br />See, utilities average around 100; more in the winter, less in the summer. AC? Yeah. You're joking. So this leaves 50 for food.
<br />
<br />Monday: Breakfast--corn flakes, with milk if I remembered to steal some from the coffee shop. Lunch--coffee. Dinner--Raman noodles. Tuesday: Breakfast--corn flakes, definitely forgot to steal some milk. Lunch--coffee. Dinner--canned beans. And so on. 
<br />
<br />I live alone because no one would ever offer to be my roommate. They either
<br />
<br />1. Would be confused and paranoid about my sexual orientation--and they wouldn't be the only one--and have nightmares about waking up with their anal sphincters gaping wide and covered in Vaseline or
<br />2. Be driven away by "the smell."
<br />
<br />Yeah, 'cause after breakfast and dinner, $0 is left for clothes and cleaning products.</font>
