---
date: '2002-04-19T13:52:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<font color="#993333">“I just figured he needed to be punished.”
<br />
<br />Micha broke the long silence back at the house.
<br />
<br />There hadn’t been a word the whole trip home.
<br />
<br />She and GS escaped around the other side of the house, to the edge of a connecting canal, which they made their way down, walking on top of the seawall, until they were a few blocks away. Behind them night-black clouds of smoke were rising up from behind DKG’s palace. His sick den of serial animal murder was definitely gone already, and the Broyhill was going to stink like it’d been at a huge fucking campfire.
<br />
<br />Well, it has been, really.
<br />
<br />By the time they started towards the nearest bus station they could hear the fire engine sirens approaching. A bus came soon enough and ended up going the other direction; there were some passengers who had just witnessed the fire and there was some buzz going around about it, but otherwise it was a normal bus ride back home.
<br />
<br />“Plus this way he’s got some insurance money coming to him.
<br />
<br />“Will make the whole store thing go over better.
<br />
<br />“He will want a new house anyway.
<br />
<br />“Maybe an entire new start.
<br />
<br />“Really, I’m saving him. Saving him from his pathetic existence of greed and murder.”
<br />
<br /><center>My mom, Jesus Christ with a vagina.</center>
<br />
<br />“Plus he’s going to be worried about that whole thing and not worrying about his shop or stopping by there at inconvenient times. Quite convenient for us.”
<br /></font>
