---
date: '2002-07-01T19:21:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Well it's 3:14 now and I've managed to keep myself fairly occupied. I watched a little too much tely (sp?); the end of the movie Net with Sandra Bullocks (sic). But then I managed to clean our place fairly thoroughly--moving the bed and the couch to sweep under them; dusting the tops of the doorways and doors, which were particularly gross. So it feels a little bit better now; I have high cleanliness standards thanks to M*. Only thing is I think M tried to call me when I was vacuuming and I didn't hear the phone in time...
<br />
<br />Went for espresso, then lunch at the ol' Euro Cafe. They wouldn't let me plug in my computer, which was weird (don't you think?), so I went to this other place, Cozi, for another espresso and to install XP Pro on my machine. It worked out great (the place is a copy of Starbucks but with food, but for now anywhere besides the Big Green Straw is better IMHO). So I'm back at the ol' biz cntr now.
<br />
<br />Couple things I've lost or left behind. <s>Found out I can get DSL for 25/mo no setup fee which is great. Only my modem is in storage. Good thing is they provide one for free (and you just return it).</s> (Update: forgot I would then have to install a software firewall which I'm not a big fan of; will have to think about it.) Router is long gone; sold; but only one machine on the 'net is fine...Also missing are my Oakley's; hopefully they'll show up in the air shipment (which also found out today is sitting on the dock in FL--due to leave FL tomorrow but let's all pray a quick one); and I forgot to burn a new copy of my programs backup, so the copy of Cold Fusion (the reason I had to install XP Pro) I downloaded in FL is also in storage, on the hard drive of the tower. :P So I'll have to try and order a physical copy of the CF demo. Or get the laptop connected to some broadband somehow. 
<br />
<br />Will know more tomorrow when I get to go in to the training and ask all kinds of questions (like do I get some special gov rate dialup or something? :) ...right now anxious for M to come home and let me know how day 1 went! 
<br />
<br />*no footnote. the * is an emoticon-type-thingie denoting smarts, as in M* ..Miriam is super-smart!
