---
date: '2002-10-02T14:36:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

so i really don't have any time for blogging today, honestly, but I just got done with my bosnian lesson for today and needed a little mental break. i'm so tired i feel like my face is made out of rubber. i can take my cheeks and move them all around my face and i feel nothing. no blood. no nervous sensation. i don't know where all my blood is, but it's not in my brain or face (and no, not down there, either). i feel like i just gave a few pints of blood, and i've <i>never</i> given any blood (i know, shame on me).
<br />
<br />so i leave you with a little bosnian, for your education and edification.
<br />
<br />I call these exercises "apsurdne posoriste" (try to imagine the accent marks), <i>absurd theatre</i>:
<br />
<br />Momak jeden: Mozes li ici u Slovacku?
<br /><i>Dude one: Are you going to Slovakia?</i>
<br />Momak dva: Da, mogu ici u Slovacku.
<br /><i>Dude two: Yeah, I'm going to Slovakia.</i>
<br />1: Ne mogu ici u Slovacku. :(
<br /><i>I'm not going to Slovakia. (frowny face)</i>
<br />2: Zasto ne mozes ici u Slovacku?
<br /><i>Why aren't you going to Slovakia?</i>
<br />1: Ne mogu dobiti visu.
<br /><i>I can't get visa.</i>
<br />2: Zasto ne mozes dobiti visu?
<br /><i>Why can't you get visa?</i>
<br />1: Ne mogu jesti sir.
<br /><i>I can't eat cheese.</i>
<br />2: Zar ne mozes jesti sir? {:\
<br /><i>You can't eat cheese? (crinkly forehead confused look)</i>
<br />1: Ne mogu. Mogu jesti sir od soye.
<br /><i>I can't. I can eat soy cheese.</i>
<br />(...blah blah blah etc etc...)
<br />2: Ne mozes dobiti visu u Slovackoj zatosto ne mozes jesti normalni sir?
<br /><i>You can't get visa to Slovakia because you can't eat normal cheese?</i>
<br />1: Da. To je stvarno tako.
<br /><i>Yep. That's a fact! (lit. "That's really so.")</i>
