---
date: '2002-03-04T22:11:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<font color="#993333">When good son finally showed up at Micha’s place, the front door was wide open, leaving only the swinging screen to prevent GS from seeing, quite clearly, his mother dancing naked in the living room to Ryan Adam’s “Firecracker.”
<br />
<br />“Leeeeet me be your baby tonight.”
<br />
<br />No rhythm, no pitch. No idea about the lyrics.
<br />
<br />Thank God for that screen door, thought GS as he called out for Micha to get dressed before he had a show of Biblical proportions. She yelped with weird delight.
<br />
<br />“Oh! Hee hee! Sorry baby just one sec!” as she disappeared around the corner. “Come in! Come in!” she shouted as she ran into her bedroom and closed the door. The music dimmed as the door came shut, the stereo in the bedroom sounding like a gagged prisoner. 
<br />
<br />Micha called him "baby" and he hated it. Mothers don't call their 22-year-old sons "baby." He had the same opinion as a 16-year-old.
<br />
<br />GS stepped into the finished Florida room that made up the entry to this little one bedroom job. Things were strewn around this little section which was separated from the living room by just a two foot wall on either side and a half-step up. The living room made up most of the house, actually, opening up to the kitchen which opened up and stepped down to a little room in the back that housed just about everything Micha ever needed--tools of the trade, clothes, loot. GS could see big boxes stacked in the corner and decided he didn’t want to know what was in them. Everything else seemed to be in order. The kitchen was clean. The living room completely empty. The old hardwood floors from 1958 were holding up and recently waxed. 
<br />
<br />Mother must have taken a day off to tidy up when she found out I was coming.
<br />
<br />Off to the side of the kitchen and back room was the bedroom. Even though he couldn’t see it right now, GS knew what was behind that closed door: the sanctuary. The room that never needs tidied up because nothing is ever out of place; the floor that never needs waxed because it is always immaculate; the cathedral ceiling with a huge white lace hanging from the four corners, which both equalized the space and made it seem even brighter and more pure than it was.
<br />
<br />My mother the thief and swindler has a bedroom fit for angels.
<br />
<br />Out the back of the house was a large backyard long-since reclaimed by nature. Micha said that nature deserved a token place to play. Its own park.
<br />
<br />Micha came out of the bedroom dressed in a long, light blue summer dress that instantly made her look 10 years younger. Her big hair was up in a huge ball, little bits sticking out here and there in an intentionally random pattern.
<br />
<br />“Hi baby!” she said with a huge smile and arms outstretched for a hug.
<br />
<br />GS hadn’t seen his mother for six years, and had spoken to her only once on the phone--and that was two weeks ago.
<br />
<br />He was instantly 16 years old again.
<br />
<br />Check that. Eight.
<br /></font>
