---
date: '2002-04-12T01:51:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<font color="#993333">When they <a href="http://www.geocities.com/CapitolHill/Senate/2680/index.html">get off</a> the bus they're right next to the canal, this huge waterway littered with boats and spanned by numerous drawbridges. All along the canal are either multi-million-dollar homes or old condo buildings. Not hi-rises per say, but enough to block your view.
<br />
<br />At any rate, GS can tell immediately that this neighborhood is more condo and less multi-million-dollar home. He would have expected such. Criminals aren't exactly rich.
<br />
<br />This isn't the movies.
<br />
<br />Micha leads the way down the small hill built up for the drawbridge, around a small sidewalk to the front of the building. It's this tan and brown job that looks like it was built in the 60's. She buzzes Tony and his voice crackles over the intercom.
<br /><center>
<br />Welcome to Taco Bell. Would you like to try our new <a href="http://www.tacobell.com/">Club Chalupa</a>?
<br />
<br />Charlie Brown's teacher.
<br />
<br />The McDonald's commercial from when he was in elementary school with the <i>mentally handicapped</i> employee at the counter. Who can't imitate a retarded person, really?
<br /></center>
<br />"Let us in!" Micha shrieks in response to Tony's indistinguishable greeting. She's all bent over shouting into the intercom while holding down that little white button that they make dimpled just so, just so it'll hold more dirt from people's fingers.
<br />
<br />The door buzzes and they enter. They climb the stairs--five flights--Micha says because it's nice out and the stairs are open air. GS can't believe she thinks he's forgotten that she hates elevators.
<br />
<br />And the elevators at condo buildings like this one always stink the most.
<br />
<br /><blockquote>in <b>kon</b> te nent
<br />
<br /><ol>
<br /><li>not having control over urination and defecation</li>
<br /></ol>
<br /></blockquote>Not a bad choice after all.
<br />
<br />They make it to Tony's floor and Micha raps three times on his door. He invites them in with a wide swoop of his arm.
<br />
<br />He looks like a Tony.
<br />
<br />Really.
<br />
<br />Unless the first Tony that pops into your head is <a href="http://www.angelfire.com/celeb/tonydanza/">Tony Danza</a>.
<br />
<br />He obviously shares Micha's penchant for jewelry. He's got enough gaudy gold all over his body to fund a mob payoff. GS tries not to think that this just may be the fact of the matter.
<br />
<br />Small talk.
<br />
<br />A little bit more small talk.
<br />
<br />He leads them from the doorway into the kitchen. It's laid out kind of strangely, with a kitchen and a very small dining room in behind the entry/living area, and off said kitchen/dining is the tiny screened balcony/porch, overlooking the canal. Micha hits the liquor cabinet and Tony shows GS out to the patio to the sound of ice hitting the bottom of future glasses of scotch.
<br />
<br />The patio is this ancient thing of concrete and wire mesh, all of it painted white. GS thinks for a second about what is possibly holding this little slab up, but decides thinking too much about that isn't a good idea. Both men go right to the mesh and look out over the canal five-some stories below.
<br />
<br />One solitary boat was making its way down the canal, south towards the drawbridge, but it was plenty small enough to get under the bridge without any draw. Tony, to GS's left, gives him an elbow in the arm and hands him a pair of binoculars. GS gives him the one-eyebrow-raised look of inquisition, but autonomically accepts the offering. 
<br />
<br />Tony says, "Check out the piece on that boat." 
<br />
<br />Still unsure of what's really going on, GS puts the binoculars up to his eyes and peers down at the boat. The binoculars are already perfectly focused, and as GS brings them up to the little boat motoring down the canal, sure enough there is a not-unattractive-but-not-really-attractive woman laying on the bow the boat. She's very tan, wearing just a small bikini, and looks like she's all greased up and ready to come shooting out of the circus cannon.
<br />
<br />If you know what I mean.
<br />
<br />Long story short, turns out Tony has quite a system going here.
<br />
<br />"Stuff like that is just floatin' by all the time. On the weekends or during season, it's just one after another, sometimes five, ten of them at a time."
<br />
<br />And Tony just kneels down on his concrete patio, sometimes he uses a little cushion from the couch, next to his good friend <a href="http://www.skinhelp.com/">Lubriderm</a>, next to his other good friend <a href="http://www.kleenex.com/home.htm">Kleenex</a>, and watches, through his high quality binoculars, the girls in their G-strings float by.
<br />
<br />Address Congress, Audition the Finger Puppets
<br />Beat the Bald-headed Bandit, Blow the Load
<br />Be Your Own Best Friend , Box the Jesuit
<br />Burp the Baby, Clean your Rifle
<br />Bang the Banjo, Bang yer Wanger
<br />Bash the Bishop, Choke your Chicken
<br />Fire your Wad, Flog the Dolphin
<br />Flog the Log, Frig Off
<br />Gallop the Antelope, Jerk the Gherkin
<br />Keep Down the Census, Make a Milk Shake
<br />Nightclub, Paddle the Pickle
<br />Play Pocket Pool, Play Solitaire
<br />Pull your Wire, Shake Hands with the Wife's Best Friend
<br />Spank the Bishop , Spank the Monkey
<br />Wave the Wand, Whack Off
<br />
<br />In fact, the paraphernalia is still right there, on the porch, not far from where GS is standing.
<br />
<br />In fact, GS must be standing in the exact same spot that
<br />
<br />In fact, GS is still holding the binoculars.
<br />
<br />In fact, GS is wondering if Tony ever has to switch hands.
<br />
<br />NTIDNH.
<br />
<br />No, This Is <i>Definitely</i> Not Happening.
<br />
<br />And yet, it is. You're still holding those binoculars. You're still frozen in the thought that you are treading on a man's very personal business. A business which he just gave you the tour of. Proudly.
<br />
<br />"Here you go."
<br />
<br />GS quickly <i>unloads</i>--no, wait, what are we saying--
<br />
<br />TINH
<br />
<br /><i>hands</i>--no, shit, there is really no good way to say this--
<br />
<br />the binoculars back to Tony and jumps back into the apartment. That glass of scotch would be good about now.
<br />
<br />On second thought, <i>somebody</i> had to have unloaded--shit!--
<br />
<br />the dishwasher. 
<br />
<br />"Mom, where's that bottle?"</font>
