---
date: '2002-03-11T16:21:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

again i've posted this before but it bears repeating <a href="http://www.btinternet.com/~smallritual/indexframe.html">small ritual</a>:
<br />
<br />Church as third place
<br />
<br />Imagine the unlocking of the doors. 
<br />Imagine the re-emergence of church interiors as public spaces in the city. 
<br />Imagine if the worship installations could stay up all the time. 
<br />Imagine your local church building as an open-doored hangout. 
<br />Imagine sofas, visuals, newspapers, books, food, drink. 
<br />Imagine a church with good coffee. 
<br />Imagine a church with plenty of places to plug in your laptop. 
<br />Imagine opening hours 10am to midnight. 
<br />Imagine spiritual resources and personal space available at all times. 
<br />Imagine a place to work, rest and pray.
<br />
<br />Your living room only bigger.
<br />Your life only bigger.
<br />
<br />Rolling community:
<br />The constant presence of staff & punters deals with the commitment problem. It creates 'rolling community' - there's no need to all be in the same place at the same time. It works like Cheers or the Queen Vic, or films like 'Slacker' and 'La Ronde' - as one set of characters leave another set arrive. All are connected by the bar staff [who themselves come and go] or one or two members who exchange groups. These are bearers of news, conveyors of messages etc. Everybody does some connecting in this way. The community is a network, not a spoked wheel dependent on a few at the centre.
<br />
