---
date: '2002-04-17T12:59:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Holy shit--how's this for non-linear: this was supposed to go before Monday's bit. I'm either losing it or Blogger is, but whatever, here goes:
<br />
<br /><font color="#993333">As Micha and GS walked to the beach from Tony's place, Micha let GS know the plans she and Tony had made for the distribution of their take from the jewelry store.
<br />
<br />"There's another store nearby, run by this guy, Ben Cohen. He's going to be there, in the back, late, waiting for us. He's going to give us a lump sum for the entire take. Tony said it will take him all of five minutes to appraise it.
<br />
<br />"That's it. We'll be done when we leave his place. He'll give Tony his share and take care of distributing the goods, which is how he'll make his cut--I don't even want to know how sickenly much that is going to be, but that's the way these things go."
<br />
<br />The rich get richer and the poor keep stealing.
<br />
<br />So with that they arrived at the beach and spent midday sunbathing, letting the salt-filled air strike their face, taking dips in the ocean on occasion to cool off and be revived. They had a little lunch and a couple of margaritas at a boardwalk café.
<br />
<br />By the time they left they both had that pleasant exhaustion from a day at the beach. It was by then the height of the afternoon, and the heat, even at this time of the year, was oppressive.
<br />
<br />When they got on the bus, GS assumed they were headed straight home, but Micha had another plan.
<br />
<br />"I have something I want to do," she said as they walked back the aisle and climbed into their seats.
<br />
<br />"What's that?"
<br />
<br />"You'll see."
<br /></font>
