---
date: '2002-04-28T14:47:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

yes. yes. and yes. the style at our installations is certainly nothing like
<br />ya'lls over there. we don't have the dance culture at all down here (despite
<br />being Miami and all...closest we get is when the Winter Music Conference
<br />rolls into town; actually i'm sure there are plenty of clubs in south beach
<br />playing good dance, but trust me it's a different culture; although i seem
<br />to remember something on the small fire message boards about that ;).
<br />anyway, we're from West Palm. my favorite local band is Legends of
<br />Rodeo--major American Rock'n'Roll. The biggest act out of our scene is
<br />Dashboard Confessional--major emo guy. The band we're forming for the summer
<br />is going to be punk-pop. Basically we don't have a dance bone in our bodies
<br />over here. And the music from Ecclesia was just like Caedmon's Call; but
<br />guess what?--they're about two hours apart, so yeah, South Texas music I
<br />guess. i guess it's just more the sentiment or vibe. if somebody comes to
<br />DJDC through AWDC and they see my little 'note' and they go to my mp3.com
<br />page and immediately make up their mind on us, who knows what that mind
<br />would be. i just put two new songs up there that both have cocaine
<br />references and the one has the word 'goddamn' in it. farther down the page
<br />are my 'praise and worship' tunes i would just *love* to sell off to some
<br />publisher and be done with it. besides the fact that that is all crap up
<br />there....SSSSSOOOOOOO.....but for example i'm listening to Kings of
<br />Convenience right now, who weren't dance to start out with, but were
<br />embraced by that culture. so there are plenty of examples out there of the
<br />fact that it's not style it's culture.....i guess the problem is when u grow
<br />up in the getto culture and then try to be relevant...peps don't realize
<br />they have to get out of the getto entirely...if you were to pop in the
<br />Ecclesia guy and Legends of Rodeo, you might stick them in the same
<br />Americana category...but I hear, feel and know there is a wide, wide gulf
<br />between them....or like my fav band, Over the Rhine (another Americana
<br />sound)...the getto is just now hearing about them...hello?!...but OtR
<br />fortunately is far enough along where it's neither here nor there to them
<br />what the getto thinks....the band we're starting is going to be called <s><font color="#FFFFFF">
<br />Christian Porn Machine</font></s> (<b>Update:</b>shit!someone read that! ha ha.)  
<br />in order to keep the getto away....we're here for the
<br />antigetto, because we are the antigetto. over there, you never had a getto.
<br />and you can praise God about *that*.
<br />
