---
date: '2002-04-27T03:16:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<font color="#993333">Micha led GS down the street with a bravado he had never before experienced. He was compelled to follow, but even so her quick pace kept her four feet ahead as they made their way down the street to the main connecting road. Normally they would have made a left to go down to the bus stop, but this time Micha walked right across the four-lane “highway” (as they called it--even though it clearly was not) and into a parking lot of a small, old strip mall across the street. She had it going on, from the summer dress to the beehive to the gold all over her wrists, neck, and ears to the oversized purse/beach bag under her arm.
<br />
<br />Before GS even had a chance to make it across the road, Micha had her slim jim out from under her dress and jammed between the window and door of a nondescript navy blue sedan in the remotest part of the parking lot. The door was open before he got up to the car. The engine was roaring to life as he got into the passenger seat. They were pulling out of the parking lot before he even managed his first words.
<br />
<br />“What the fuck are we doing?”
<br />
<br /><blockquote>A: No Clue.
<br />
<br />A: Obtaining transportation
<br />
<br />A: Going on a little spree
<br />
<br />A: Following a plan</blockquote>
<br />
<br />Micha was totally stoic, unusually silent, her usually comic, light, beautiful manner replaced by a serious, dark, and equally beautiful one. GS’s face became a picture of contorted confusion and terror. One would think you were forcing him to perform some meaningless task over and over. One would think he was stuck at some major mind fuck of a job. Bending over to worship at the feet of the Gods he was forced prostrate in front of.
<br />
<br />But no. Here he was. In fact, forced into this terrible excitement by a mother that had abandoned him--or had he abandoned her?--six years ago and now acted like it was last week and all was forgiven. Here he was in a stolen car going over the speed limit through a small town with a large police force on a hot evening with the windows down and the hair-dryer air coming in full force over his sopping wet pits.
<br />
<br />No.
<br />
<br />This was definitely not happening.
<br />
<br />No. No. No.
<br />
<br />There was going to be no good ending. Everything was not going to be fine. His mother was going to drive him, quite literally, over the edge, into the bright light at the end of the tunnel which was actually an Amtrak train coming at them full speed, into the arms of the law, a law that would never let them go and certainly not allow him to even take the bar exam ever in his life, yet alone dream of passing it and working in a courtroom as Matlock’s noble assistant, screwing the secretary and living happily ever after.
<br />
<br />No.
<br />
<br />This wasn’t the movies. This wasn’t even TV.
<br />
<br />Well, sort of not.
<br />
<br />This was real life.
<br />
<br />Well, sort of not.
<br />
<br />No.
<br />
<br />This was <i>it</i>.
<br />
<br />This was definitely the end.
<br />
<br />It was at least really not good.
<br /></font>
