---
date: '2002-07-14T15:33:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<i>this is no <a href="http://www.lormusic.com/media/lyrics/lyrics/standard_life.html">standard life</a></i>:
<br />
<br />this weekend a friend of ours is in town and yesterday we had an awesome time hanging around DC.
<br />
<br />we took the metro to a recommended part of town in order to find an Ethiopian restaurant. we finally did find one--check that, about 8--and i had Ethiopian food for the first time. you eat it with your hands with this spongy bread. it tastes a lot like Indian. it is very cool. later that night i found out that traditionally the Ethiopians feed each other. talk about community. made me think about what a message that is about a culture, that they feed each other; and about all the difficulties that country and that region have had in the last two decades. 
<br />
<br />after coffee at a hip little shop, we stumbled upon a used book store...in the truest sense of the word. establishments like this don't exist where i've come from. three stories of knowledge like you wouldn't believe. a building with more character that all of Dade, Broward, and West Palm combined. we just browsed for about an hour; i found a CD for my sister and Miriam found lots of books for Cade, Abdiel, and Ransom...
<br />
<br />(i just realized that our three favorite kids all have very cul names!)
<br />
<br />for dinner another new friend joined us and we wandered down from our apartment in Arlington towards an area i had been meaning to check out for a while. we considered the standard restaurants, the Vietnamese restaurants, and South American restaurants. but it was the Moroccan place that really drew us in. we walked in and were informed that there were no tables available. the place was already crowded, and every open table was reserved. we were, however, conversed with for some time, despite the fact that they had to turn us away. we got cards, a name, and, in short, made to feel like we definately wanted to check this place out again ASAP. we then wandered around the block for a while, thinking that every place just didn't compare. well, finally we were starting around the corner at the end of the block, determined to go back to the Vietnamese place, when some people who we had just walked by turned and said to us from around the corner, "The waiter is trying to get your attention." this guy ran out of his restaurant and down the street to tell us that a table had opened up! i'm thinking, "this just doesn't happen!" even before we sat down to eat we felt so well taken care of, and it didn't stop there. the food and service was great; and there was a bellydancer to entertain us for about 1/2 hour. she made some ladies and some gents get up and dance with her. the entire room was festive, joyful, alive, and full of community-spirit. the entire experience definately rated in a top ten list of some sort, and i have certainly never experienced that kind of spirit in a restaurant before. no wonder the place was packed! we have found a new secret/special place to <i>live</i>...
<br />
<br /><i>more on <b>content management</b>...</i>
<br />
<br />i'm not going to call it blogging anymore...got one recommendation already...my system will automatically "blogchalk" you based on your bio information, but it will also pick out key words (i.e. "alt.worship" "music" or whatever) you specify in your posts and facilitate your google listings based on those keywords as well...you'll just select the keywords before you post...
