---
date: '2002-04-22T12:43:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<a href="http://theyblinked.blogspot.com/2002_04_14_theyblinked_archive.html#75556387">it seems few remember what jesus taught.</a>
<br />it was something about infinite debt and god having to
<br />exact a suitable payment for this debt, right?? 
<br />
<br />no.
<br />
<br />you are now equating the teachings of yesh'uah ben joseph with a highly detailed, hellenistic ideological "ransom paid to the devil" construction developed by Origen (~185 - 254 CE) and the even more insidious "satisfaction for god" theological construct articulated by Anselm (~1033 - 1109 CE) and then further developed along judicial/penal lines by the "reformers" (Luther, Calvin, Zwingli, et al).
<br />
<br />jesus taught about something called the kingdom of god.
<br />what i have taken to calling the other kingdom. 
<br />
<br />think of any system, power, structure, economy, matrix, kingdom, reality--the kingdom of god, the matrix of god, the reality of god is always the other kingdom. always that which one cannot fully bring into language. always that which one must enact with body and word. a community bordering and embracing the impossible--anticipating and enacting the emergence of the impossible here, now, with this person, in this circumstance. 
<br />
<br />the other kingdom is a living force within the social order. a way of being (in another place this might be called dharma, but don't let me get too confusing here...). his vision was for this living force, this yeast of culture, to become so pervasive that it ultimately shaped every institution and relationship that it touched. 
<br />
<br />the other kingdom is a subversive voice always already speaking from within in critique of any system claiming to mediate the other. it is constitutionally and ceaselessly pregnant with subversion, with reversal, with otherness.
