---
date: '2002-04-27T03:37:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<font color="#993333">They drove an alarmingly short distance before stopping, pulling over in an alarmingly populated portion of said small town with large police department. In fact, right in front of the jewelry store Micha had scoped. Planned. Arranged might be the best word for it.
<br />
<br />She left the car on, parked the wrong way I might add.
<br />
<br /><center>Me still in it.</center>
<br />
<br />And got out. She walked up to the door, swung it open, popped her head in, and said something.
<br />
<br /><center>Something I couldn’t hear from where I was sitting.</center>
<br />
<br />“Hey, don’t worry about the key, just leave the back door open when you leave.”
<br />
<br />“What are you doing here?!” came the agitated response from the only person she could have been talking to, the only person in the shop, a young guy with black wavy hair and clothes definitely not befitting a jewelry store clerk. “There are cameras right on you! All over!”
<br />
<br />“That doesn’t matter,” Micha said and proceeded to enter the store, running her hand across the top of the display case, looking longingly at the content stored within. When she got to where the man was standing, dumbfounded, she leaned over, her elbows now on the case, and asked very plainly, “Can you show me this one?” She pointed to a bracelet in the display case below her. 
<br />
<br />“Sure,” came the hesitant and worried response.
<br />
<br />“Don’t worry. There’s no audio. It’s just a super-eight. I’m here shopping. Now just leave the back door open tonight.”
<br />
<br />“But there are three locks.”
<br />
<br />“So leave them <i>o</i>pen.”
<br />
<br />“Ok. Ok.”
<br />
<br />“Now sell this to me for three bucks,” Micha says, pointing to the silver now on her wrist along with the mass of gold.
<br />
<br />“That’s a three hundred dollar bracelet. I can’t do that. You’re on camera.”
<br />
<br />“I’m going to hand you three bills. Ones. Hundreds. It doesn’t make any difference. I am going to remove them from the safe tonight anyway. Just write in your little ledger book at the end of the day that I gave you three hundreds. Ok?”
<br />
<br />“Ok.”
<br />
<br />“Ok?”
<br />
<br />“Ok. Ok.”
<br />
<br />No. This is definitely not happening.
<br />
<br />A cop car slowly drives by outside, inches from GS’s elbow sticking out the window of the stolen car.
<br />
<br />No.
<br />
<br />GS can only keep from throwing up by remembering that that would definitely draw the attention of those cops.
<br />
<br />The police hate drunks.
<br />
<br />Micha comes back out of the store, new purchase on her body, while the police cruiser is still not even getting smaller in the distance. She smoothly drops back into the car and pulls out into the road. 
<br />
<br />The sun is that annoyingly dim but bright way it gets right before it dips below the horizon. Where if you’re facing away from it it’s dark, if you’re facing towards it it’s blinding.
<br />
<br />Micha makes a left down a side street and GS is blinded.
<br /></font>
