---
date: '2002-04-27T04:01:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<font color="#993333">A couple more blocks down and Micha pulls a quick right into a small dirt parking lot/driveway. There is a ragged and out-of-place tree climbing sideways across an old building that is one story in the back and two in the front. The tree half-obscures a car port that Micha practically flies into. The branches first scare, then scrape GS, right across the arm, leaving a good-sized gash across his forearm. Micha stops the car on a dime--albeit a dirt dime--and GS practically flies into the dash, having to awkwardly hold out his other elbow--the one that’s not bleeding--to keep him from sprawling out all over the passenger-side leg-area. Or whatever you call that part of the car. The floor.
<br />
<br />Micha and GS both climb out of the car, GS having to negotiate the killer tree to make it out of the car port, and they meet behind the car in the cloud of dust left by Micha’s Dukes of Hazard move. GS is holding his bleeding arm with the fall-breaking arm.
<br />
<br />“Oh, goodness, Johnny! What are we going to do with you? We are going to have to do something about that!”
<br />
<br /><center>Didn’t she mean “baby?”</center>
<br />
<br />Micha proceeds to pull a screwdriver out of her little sundress pocket and hold it up like it was of some importance.
<br />
<br /><center>She meant she was going to stab me?</center>
<br />
<br />Micha proceeds to crouch down behind the sedan and remove it’s license plate with the screwdriver.
<br />
<br />Micha proceeds to throw the license plate to the back of the car port, where it lands out of sight in front of the car.
<br />
<br />Micha proceeds to lead Johnny, quite literally by the arm, down the alley, around to the main street, and into an ice-cream parlor. But not the latter before getting the cast away tree leaves out from under Johnny’s sleeve.
<br />
<br />Apparently, this ice-cream parlor has a car port.
<br />
<br />“My boy fell and cut himself just outside here, do you might if we use your bathroom real quick?”
<br />
<br /><center>Of course they don’t mind.</center>
<br />
<br />“Of course we don’t mind. Help yourself. It’s right there around the corner. Here. Take some napkins.”
<br />
<br />“Thank you.”
<br />
<br />Micha proceeds to stick Johnny’s bloody arm under the facet and runs cool water over it for a few minutes, lightly rubbing the cut with her fingers every so often. Then she pulls his arm out from the sink, popped the lot of napkins right on the cut and says “hold that there.”
<br />
<br />Micha proceeds to go back out into the store and order herself an ice cream cone.
<br />
<br />One small scoop banana, one small scoop chocolate. Oh and can you put the banana scoop on top? Thanks.
<br />
<br />Yeah.
<br /></font>
