---
date: '2002-02-12T23:16:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

I live in Hypoluxo, which is basically just the far-east end of Boynton Beach, a pretty big town in West Palm Beach county in South Florida. That capital S because it's like its own world.
<br />
<br />Whenever I have to get something, almost anything, really, I have to go to Congress. I think it's an avenue. Congress Avenue. Well, I don't know because everyone here knows it as plain old Congress.
<br />
<br />In Boyton Beach, the entire west side of Congress is shops. It is the consumer heaven. There is nothing in this world that a normal person could every want, need, or not really want or need but buy anyway that they could not find in this area. It goes on forever. Name a store. Say it, outloud. Yep, there's one there.
<br />
<br />So I'm on my way to get something. It's not really important what because if I need to buy it, it's going to require me to go to Congress in Boynton, because if it can be bought, it's on Congress in Boyton. The west side of the street. Everytime I go there I am both amazed and nausiated. 
<br />
<br />The funny thing is, that at this one spot, for about half a mile, on the east side of Congress, is a farm. Well, I'm not sure you can call it a farm. But there are open fields with nothing but old broken fencing, rolls of fencing laying here and there...and two cows. Two cows. And a little house on the one side of the property. My guess is it's about 10 acres. 10 acres of uncommercialized real estate. Directly across from the giganto Boyton Beach Mall. Right across from where the throngs lay down their hard-earned cash for new leather handbags and colorful mobile phone covers, two cows--<a href="http://www.tucows.com">two cows</a>--<b>two cows</b>--graze lazily on 10 acres of grass. Right across from where people daily put out the greenbacks for specially branded coffee and shoes with a particular logo on them, two cows pretend it's 1892.
<br />
<br />That's alright.
