---
date: '2002-04-06T03:23:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<font color="#993333">Micha and GS are back at her rental. GS sits on the small couch tucked up behind the small dividing wall between the front room and the main room. Micha dashes back and forth between the bedroom, off to the right, and the kitchen, directly in front. It’s a small enough house that two people could have a conversation from the far two corners if they wanted to. Hollow enough for it, too.
<br />
<br />Micha is trying to appear busy doing whatever it is she’s doing in the bedroom and the kitchen. Making tea and making her face as the case may be. Some mild music plays on the stereo, which is stacked up on the floor next to the bedroom door. 
<br />
<br />GS is loungin’, almost laying all the way back, one leg propped up on the other’s knee, and he rests a nearly-empty glass on his ankle. He’s wearing oddly rust-orange socks, which don’t clash with, but don’t go with his dark blue jeans, either. In the glass is about three last sips of some mystery liquid, along with the remnants of three ice cubes, their lives almost spent, their yellowish, chlorinated selves slowly integrating with the drink. Like pacific islands as you fly overhead, their clear-water reefs looking like green ooze disappearing into the sea.
<br />
<br />Not that anyone <i>here </i>has ever been to the Pacific. We’ve seen some movies, though.
<br />
<br />That sushi one with Tom Hanks.
<br />
<br />Which reminds GS of one time Ethan Hawk was on the Regis and Kathy show, before Kathy left, and he quoted Tom Hanks as saying, “You can only eat so well.”
<br />
<br />Yeah.
<br />
<br />Micha finishes seeping her tea--I’m sorry, <i>infusing</i>--
<br />
<br />No. What the hell are we talking about. Brewing.
<br />
<br />and comes over and parks it on the floor right in front of GS. She’s looking less mawvelous and more mother. Her tan, slightly wrinkled face is suddenly not so from vanity, it’s from taking the kids to the beach for a lifetime. Her eyes communicate caring not greed.
<br />
<br />It’s a moment.
<br />
<br />Literally.
<br />
<br />“So the safe.”
<br />
<br />No.
<br />
<br />“It’s this ancient job. One lock bar through half-inch steel right at the lock, and we’re talking 40-year-old steel here.”
<br />
<br />This is not happening.
<br />
<br />NTINH.
<br />
<br />“Brute force with some simple mechanics. It’s always worked for me. We grab the keys from pissed-off employee boy with some promise of a percentage of our score, which we will renegotiate <i>after</i> we actually get the goods, and we’re in and out of there in minutes. It’s flawless. I’ve mentioned that haven’t I?”
<br />
<br />NNN.
<br />
<br />TINH.
<br />
<br />That drink? I think there was a little scotch in there. Around the chlorine ice. 
<br />
<br />“Ok.”
<br /></font>
