---
date: '2002-06-03T16:15:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

You are driving along in your car on a wild, stormy night. You pass by a bus stop, and you see three people waiting for the bus: 
<br />
<br />1. An old lady who looks as if she is about to die. 
<br />2. Your best friend who once saved your life. 
<br />3. The perfect woman you have been dreaming about all your life. 
<br />
<br />There can only be one passenger in your car and you can't return to the bus stop once you have stopped. Which one would you choose to offer a ride? 
<br />
<br />Think before you continue reading...This is a moral/ethical dilemma that was once actually used as part of a job selection process so your future could depend on how you answer this question. 
<br />
<br />You could pick up the old lady, because she is going to die, and thus you should save her first; or you could take your best friend because he once saved your life, and this would be the perfect chance to pay him back. However, you may never be able to find your perfect dream lover again. 
<br />
<br />The candidate who was hired (out of 200 applicants) had no trouble coming up with his answer. 
<br />
<br />WHAT DID HE SAY?...
<br />
<br />He answered: "I would give the car keys to my old friend, and let him take the old lady to the hospital. I would stay behind and wait for the bus with the woman of my dreams." 
<br />
<br />The moral of the story is that we can gain more if we are able to giveup our stubborn thought limitations and "Think Outside of the Box." 
<br />
<br />Nobody came up with the correct answer which is, of course, to run over the old lady and put her out of her misery, shag the perfect woman silly on the bonnet of your car and then drive off with your best friend to the nearest pub to celebrate ...... sorted.
<br />
