---
date: '2002-07-30T14:50:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

JAMES: How were the two o’clock guys?
<br />NANCY: They were pretty good. I think Calvin is still hanging around here somewhere.
<br />KELVIN: Was he convincing as you?
<br />NANCY: You mean as my character? Sure. I guess. I didn’t see that part, now that I think about it.
<br />JAMES: I’m so nervous. There is so much to live up to in this play.
<br />NANCY: Yes, but you’ll do fine. They always do fine.
<br />JAMES: What?
<br />NANCY: You always do fine. You’ll do your brother proud.
<br />JAMES: Thank you.
<br />NANCY: You’re welcome. {pause} How do they get all you guys, anyway?
<br />KELVIN: What do you mean?
<br />NANCY: How do they find so many fine twin actors?
<br />JAMES: Well, it is, after all, the most popular play in the country, and it only plays in one place.
<br />NANCY: Yes, I know. But still. You are never hesitant. You always come in. You always go out. You are always so proud. You are always so deliberate. You are always so…actful!
<br />KELVIN: It’s our jobs.
<br />NANCY: And I guess that is the final analysis. Big jobs equal big fame equal big time at the top. Well, I hope you all the best of luck.
<br />JAMES: Thank you. I just hope I can do at least as well, if not better, than the two o’clock guy.
<br />NANCY: Yes, well. {pause} How long do you guys rehearse?
<br />JAMES: Three weeks.
<br />NANCY: Wow. And you’ve never seen this play?
<br />JAMES: No. But it’s reputation proceeds itself.
<br />NANCY: Three weeks for this. {pause} Well, anyway, it’s not the two o’clock guys you need to worry about. There was this guy last week who was incredible. The best yet, and there has been a few to come around here. If you can top him…let’s just say that I’m staying in touch with his brother mostly on account of his performance.
<br />
<br />{This evokes a smile from KELVIN.}
<br />
<br />Awe-inspiring. {pause} Anyway, the best of luck to you both, again.
<br />
<br />{Voice from offstage}: Curtain in five minutes.
<br />
<br />JAMES: Well we’d better get going. We’ll let you make your final preparations and we’ll go make ours. I’ll see you in just a bit.
<br />KELVIN: See you.
<br />NANCY: See you.
<br />
<br />{James and Kelvin exit. Before they get completely off stage, lights go out.}
<br />
<br />{Voice from offstage}: Ladies and gentlemen, “Rob and the Dancer.”
<br />
