---
date: '2002-07-18T22:48:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<center><b>Act II</b></center>
<br />
<br />SCENE: <i>A beach on a deserted island. The sea is a very dark blue, and a thick jungle grows out from the sand of the beach, providing a sharp contrast of sand and vegetation. WILLIAM is now in character as ROB. He wears the tattered suit and lays face down on the stage. He looks rather disheveled and has a day's growth on his face. After the lights come up, he pushes himself up to his knees. He spits out a wad of wet sand .from his mouth, disgustingly, and holds his head.</i> 
<br />
<br />ROB: Where am I? God , my head! 
<br />
<br />{He checks for wounds or blood by examining his head with his fingers} 
<br />
<br />What happened? Where am I? 
<br />
<br />{He turns his head from side to side and stares at his surroundings in amazement.} 
<br />
<br />Where the hell am I? 
<br />
<br />{He brings himself to his feet and looks down over his battered body and tattered suit} 
<br />
<br />God, my suit! 
<br />
<br />{He smells his pi ts. } 
<br />
<br />Wow! Where have I been? Where am I? 
<br />
<br />{He again looks from side to side, with an even more distressed look. He surveys his body and his situation. He buries his face in his hands and weeps violently. He slowly goes down to his knees, and then down to his face. His weeping becomes less and less violent until he is not crying at all. Finally, he moves his hands, turns his head, and it is apparent he has fallen asleep. } 
<br />
<br />{The lights go out for just long enough to get WILLIAM wet.}
<br />
<br />{ROB wakes up again after the lights are back up. He slowly rises to his knees again. Now his suit is soaked from the waist down.} 
<br />
<br />Where am I? Man, do I itch! Oh , and I'm all wet from laying in the current! 
<br />
