---
date: '2002-07-20T18:15:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<center><b>Act III</b></center>
<br />
<br />SCENE: <i>Somewhere in the thick forest of the island. ROB is exploring. He walks in circles while pushing away imaginary foliage.</i>
<br />
<br />ROB: I'll show 'em. I'll show 'em. I'll show her. I'm gonna survive this thing. Whatever this thing is. I need answers. I need answers, damn it! Where am I? Why won't this headache go away? Why won't this scenery change? It looks the same no matter where I go! 
<br />
<br />{He motions to the backgrounds.} 
<br />
<br />It's like a damn video game. I'm getting sick watching it go by. And it is sick how quiet it is in here! Where the hell are the sounds?! Where are the animals? I don't know whether to be scared about the fact that there aren't any animals here or paranoid about the potential for some great big predator to be lurking in the shadows. Shit , Rob, now you're not making any sense! Are there even any flowers in here?!
<br />
<br />{ROB makes one or two more circles, then stumbles upon a pond (lights fall on the pond located at the side of the stage). It is the size of a children's swimming pool and very clean (a mirror). He reacts with great joy and anticipation, running the last two steps until he arrives at its edge. He kneels at its edge and peers into it.} 
<br />
<br />What joy! Fresh water! 
<br />
<br />{He touches the (invisible) water and cups a handful, letting it fall back into the pond. Then he rises to his feet and observes himself in the reflection of the pond for a moment.} 
<br />
<br />Yea, I'm the man. I'm lookin' pretty good. My hair is an my head. 
<br />
<br />{He mumbles a few sentences} 
<br />
<br />My face is clean. 
<br />
<br />{He bends over and washes his face with the water. He straightens up and lifts his shirt to expose his stomach.} 
<br />
<br />I've got the six pack . I'm the man. 
<br />
<br />{long pause} 
<br />
<br />I'm, sick! 
<br />
