---
date: '2002-07-26T16:19:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

{ROB stretches his mouth with a large yawn. Just as he is finished, the BALLERINA appears from the entranceway of the theater. She dances methodically to the stage and across it towards ROB, who is fingering the blade of his machete and staring sinisterly towards the BALLERINA. He begins to yell at her as she comes onto the stage.}
<br />
<br />Robinson Eugene Corning isn’t doing too bad for himself now, eh? I’ll show you! I’ll show everyone! You don’t mess with the man! You don’t mess with me! You don’t mess with Robinson! You don’t mess with Robinson E. Corning! Ignoring me, eh? We’ll see just how far you get doing that! You won’t get nowhere! NOWHERE! You won’t make it. You ain’t the man.
<br />
<br />{The BALLERINA glides right up to ROB and grins ear to ear. Rob gives a disgusted look back, shocked to see any response. She then turns her back to him and begins to walk away. His face turns to rage. He begins after her, his machete raised above his head, ready to strike. He lets out a homicidal scream. She spins around and puts a large sword through his neck, pinning him to a tree (backdrop). She lets go of the sword and watches ROB as he hangs there in silence. The machete falls and clanks loudly on the ground. Her face shows no emotion as blood flows down the tree and onto the ground. His face is mangled. He twitches one last time and is dead. The BALLERINA deliberately grips the sword once again.}
<br />
<br />{Lights go out. When they are turned on again in an instant, CALVIN is in the exact same position the BALLERINA was in, gripping the sword. He looks and is dressed exactly like the late WILLIAM, save that his suit is new and clean. He pulls the blade from the tree and watches WILLIAM fall lifelessly to the floor. He turns on this heal and begins to march across the stage.}
<br />
<br />THE NEW ROB: Next!
<br />
<br />{He exits. The lights go out.}
<br />
