---
layout: post
title: Gratitude in 2020
date: 2020-12-26 00:09:49
categories:
---

Despite this year being the unanimously voted Worst Year Ever, I personally have a lot to be grateful for. I'm normally the Eeyore type, willing to see the downside of any windfall, imagine an axe always ready to fall on my neck, attribute to luck every miracle. But in the last few days, I've been a little overcome with gratitude. It's disconcerting, to be honest.

The [aforementioned sale of the company](https://adagia.org/post/81) I worked at for seven years provided some financial security for me and my family. It was also very fulfilling.

But that was just the beginning. There was more and I'll post about each of these in more detail:

Minecraft U camps were canceled due to COVID-19, so we had to think quick to spin up online camps. Our income went to zero, but it didn't go below zero! We learned a lot. We're starting to get the hang of it. It's allowing kids to participate more consistently in our community. It brought in kids from other states.

I got a new job! Having taken my previous company "across the finish line" so to speak, and not constrained by any buy-out or retention package, I was free to take a great opportunity to work with a friend in an industry (developer education) that I'm really interested in. It also allowed me to get back to a small company, which is my preference.

We launched a huge product that has made a lot of money (relatively speaking) for both the creator and the company.

I got to ride my bike a lot more. I rode my bike 100 miles (at once) for the first time in about eight years.

We got a kitten.

My family has remained healthy. My children continue to be a delight, and smart, and happy. We just had a great Christmas morning, I got to go on a bike ride, and soon we'll eat Christmas dinner. It's just a little chilly outside and it's warm and cozy inside. There's a lot to be hopeful for as we enter 2021.&nbsp;
