---
layout: post
title: Jurij
date: 2021-10-05 01:48:51
categories:
 - 100 200-word character sketches
---

Jurij wasn't like the others. He felt it when someone stage whispered a comment as they walked by. When he accidentally walked in front of traffic and the cars had to come to a stop he didn't think, "I have the right-of-way," he thought, "Damn, I messed up again. Those people think I'm crazy."

Beneath the schizophrenic facade was a complicated inner workings, as complicated as any introvert. It was like the visible part of his brain--the part that evidenced in words and actions--was at constant odds with the invisible part--the part that housed emotions and his inner dialogue.&nbsp;

Because of his illness, Jurij couldn't hold a job. He was outcast from normal society. Even the hospitals didn't know what to do with him. They were so few and so underfunded that they frequently turned him away, even after they took him in for a few days. He didn't mind. They were pretty horrible inside.

It was the day he once again walked into the street in front of a speeding Lada that had no chance of stopping this time, that he realized he might be special. Just as the car was about to hit him, another car came barreling through the intersection, t-boned the Lada, throwing it away from Jurij. A woman on the sidewalk said in disbelief, "God must be watching over you!"

"God?" Jurij thought, "Looking after me?"

The next day he stepped in front of a Mercedez. It hit a pothole, blew a front tire, and spun around him. Jurij felt the breeze against his arm.
