---
layout: post
title: 2021
date: 2021-12-17 21:11:17
categories:
---

Today I rode my bike in shorts and a short-sleeved jersey. Tomorrow we celebrate Christmas here at the house--early because Monday, we fly to Florida for our first family reunion since well before the pandemic started. We return the following Monday and the next morning I start my new job.

In the last three months, I lost my job, lost my gallbladder, my car got hit by a drunk driver in a hit-and-run, I got a new job. The job loss led to a lot of self-discovery, the gallbladder surgery led to a lot of gratitude for what health I have retained, and significant dietary changes, which in turn led to a decent amount of weight loss. The car accident led to a lot of learning about forgiveness. The new job will lead to many things, but it's presenting taking up a lot of mental cycles thinking about how to prepare for both the job and for how to maintain my health as my time constraints increase substantially.&nbsp;

> I was doing nothing since before you were even born. I'm still doing nothing, but I'm doing it better than ever before.

-- Owen,&nbsp;_Headphoned_

> Here's to new sights, new tastes, new lines on my face.

(same)

I've spent this last week of freedom riding my bike again (post-mandatory-surgery-convalescing) and frantically getting personal tasks off my to-do list.

Somewhere in all of this, I lost my writing habit. I hope to find it again soon. I did a "2021 Year in Review" via [Ness Labs](https://nesslabs.com/)&nbsp;this last Wednesday and while it showed me what I mostly already knew, it was still informative. 2021 was another year of failing to achieve the modest creative goals I set out. But it was a year of improved health. Just today I exceeded 2020's bike mileage, which was a year when I was able to ride more than I had since 2012 (still not beating that year's record) (largely thanks to a lack of children's activities and work commute time).

Once again I found employment before I finished the work to discover what I really want to be when I grow up. But at 46 it might be time to admit that I am grown up, and I have a (new, bigger) mortgage, two kids in elementary school, a third starting college next fall. Every day I try to do what the universe asks of me and to simply enjoy the ride.
