---
layout: post
title: Reading
date: 2021-07-07 04:35:42
categories:
---

Reading seems to be an all-or-nothing affair for me. There are&nbsp;_so many_ books I intend to read. 391, in fact, just in the Notion database I use to track these things.

([I've written about this already and it's really boring](https://www.daniel.industries/2020/08/05/committed-to-read-non-stop-until-2100/).)

I just&nbsp;_tore&nbsp;_through my friend David Hopkin's "[A Hidden Burrow Near Barcombe](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B08L88STF6)", the second in his series of short, fast-paced fantasy books. I need more like this.

Typically, I'm overwhelmed with nonfiction that I struggle to get through.

There's already a lot of technical and technology-related reading I have to do for work. (We are a publisher, after all.)

Then there's just all that knowledge out there, so many books so enthusiastically recommended, sometimes commanded to read.

Since finishing David's book this morning, I'm now _currently reading_ only nonfiction:

- "Designing Your Life: How to Build a Well-Lived, Joyful Life" ...I just started this one tonight while browsing my Kindle. We'll see how far I make it into it.
- "Meditations" ...this one is easy to just pick up and read a few paragraphs from.
- "Recovery" ... Russell Brand's funny, easy-to-read take on the 12 steps. Almost halfway through.
- "Engineering Management for the Rest of Us" ...a book we're publishing this year.
- "A Swim in the Pond in the Rain"
- and as of yesterday, I'm _listening_ to "Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance" ...long story, but listening to audiobooks was recommended to me, and this one was on sale and I've never read it

I have 8 books on my "started" list, where I've started reading them but then put them down, but do intend to read them. (I have a suspicion that "Designing Your Life" will end up here.) Three of those are fiction, none of them particularly easy reads:

- "[Last of the Mohicans](https://standardebooks.org/ebooks/james-fenimore-cooper/the-last-of-the-mohicans)"
- "The Plague"
- Herman Melville's "[Short Fiction](https://standardebooks.org/ebooks/herman-melville/short-fiction)"

I have a "To Read Owned" list. There are 52 books on that list. Most nonfiction. Of the fiction titles there are:

- "Clockwork Boys"
- "Piranesi"
- "Magic for Beginners"
- "Ender's Game" (Yes, I haven't read this.)
- "No One Belongs Here More than You" by Miranda July
- "Pirate Cinema" by Cory Doctorow
- "Walkaway" by Cory Doctorow
- "Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland"
- "Great Expectations"

There are probably a couple on there that are good candidates for actually capturing my attention...

**What are&nbsp;**** _you_ **** currently reading?**

