---
layout: post
title: Clubbin'
date: 2021-04-16 20:12:32
categories:
---

I'm currently a part of 4 learning adventure clubs:

[I mentioned Learning Adventure Clubs while talking about the most recent one I've joined](https://adagia.org/content/1410). But there are three more I'm currently a part of.

The most low-key one is reading Tiago Forte's Just-in-Time Project Management series:

> we read silently together once a week in Roam, taking individual notes and then chat about it while taking more notes and reading one another's comments

([Joel](https://twitter.com/jhooks/status/1382863176052580355))

Roam as the tool/medium for the book club is _brilliant_ but will require a separate post to describe. (Even then, it's easier to show than tell.)

Another one is an egghead Course Club, where current and would-be egghead instructors learn how to create a high-quality course.

The final one is one I'm facilitating. I started working with our most talented Minecraft U camper after summer camps ended last year. Every weekend we work on ComputerCraft, or Python, or general web development. Joining us is one of my most senior instructors (who's also a senior in high school). I eventually coined it "Computer Adventures" (I just love the "adventure" moniker). It's super fulfilling work for me. Last week I bought them both mechanical keyboards (nothing fancy--the Keychron C1) and it was the most fun I've had gift-giving in a while. By June, I need to parlay Computer Adventures into a camp we can deliver over the summer. So far it's been entirely improvisational so I'm dreading actually codifying the curriculum.&nbsp;

All are really fun and fulfilling for different reasons, but the end result is I'm becoming evangelically pro-learning-club, and over-extending myself a little. 😅
