---
layout: post
title: Beanie
date: 2021-02-28 04:39:04
categories:
 - 100 200-word character sketches
---

There are a few different kinds of musicians in the world. About 1% make it big and stay big. They have life-long careers and don't have to worry about money again (unless they are Billy Joel). About another 1% make it big once. If they're extremely lucky they have a big enough hit that it keeps getting played on radio and in restaurants and (someone unimportantly from a monetary standpoint) streaming services. This provides a modicum of mailbox money, and if they paid off their house with the initial checks, the smaller ongoing checks can keep them comfortable. They might still work in the industry but not in any capacity you're likely to hear about. Another 8% maintain careers as musicians. They might be sidemen, or studio musicians, or transition to production or engineering. They might score films, or create music for catalogs.&nbsp;

Beanie was part of the remaining 90%--the washed up. They might have toured, maybe even toured Europe or Japan. They might have been in even a couple of bands that were signed to a label and released maybe a few records. But none of them produced the kind of audience or notoriety that could sustain them, and eventually, the literal gig was up.

Beanie lived in a modest house in a modest but gentrifying part of town. He still dreamed of playing music again. But he was busy at his day job, which would frequently demand more than 40 hours of his week. It was physical work and he wasn't young and he would usually feel exhausted by the time he got home, made himself some dinner, and showered.&nbsp;

Beanie wasn't his real name. Bandmates had given him that nickname while on tour due to his ever-present hat. He didn't wear a beanie all the time now, but the name had stuck. It was the only thing left from his days as a real musician.
