---
layout: post
title: Hello, 2022
date: 2022-01-02 17:56:29
categories:
---

My writing habit took a major hit towards the end of 2021. The trigger was when I lost my job in October. I'm not sure why that was the trigger. Maybe all my creative energy had to go into re-writing my resume, writing cover letters, preparing for interviews, making sure my blog was slightly more professional-looking if you read the most recent few entries (I did [blog](https://daniel.industries/blog/) some during that period but did not bother cross-posting here) (but I still blogged less in 2021 than in 2020).

I just re-subscribed to [everyday.app](https://everyday.app/). I think I let my previous subscription lapse a year or two ago, and I had been using a daily card template in Notion to track habits. For no particular reason, I'm trying a couple of different apps instead of Notion for task/habit tracking. But writing remains at the bottom of the habits list. Exercise, meditation, and other mental and spiritual habits still take priority. Perhaps some kind of reverse-psychology worked, however, as coming here to check off the writing habit was the first thing I did after reorganizing my list on everyday.

I'm not one for resolutions at the start of a new year. I'm more-or-less always working on improving myself, and I'm more about quarterly, weekly, and daily plans, guided by a values and goals document that I revisit as necessary. I have, however, had some year-end events that have helped usher in a new season right as the year ticked over.

I spontaneously attended an hour-long year-in-review via the [Ness Labs](https://nesslabs.com/) community (to which I have a membership) which I found both achievable and valuable, and I hope to spend another hour or so with today. (You can get the year-in-review template [here](https://nesslabs.com/year-in-review).)

I started a new job on the 28th of December, allowing for four workdays before the new year ticked over. I had originally planned on starting Monday (January 3rd), but the recruiter helpfully considered the fact that I could qualify for health insurance (which I've had to take care of on my own since losing my job) if I started before January 1st. It was a good first week and I have been able to make valuable contributions already. I feel valued and appreciated, which is new for me. Overall--despite some struggle to re-adapt to a commute, an in-office schedule, and a longer-than-40-hour workweek--a positive experience. I am nearly entirely optimistic about the entire thing, which is a rare state of being in my head.

I celebrated six years of continuous sobriety on December 11th, and as it happens the day I got my "chip" was Dec 31st. It was a great way to wrap up the year, especially after a good first week of work and a quick bike ride between work and the meeting.

I'm entering 2022 with a lot of optimism and determination and keeping an eye on things that will help those trends continue.
