---
layout: post
title: 'Denison Witmer at Common Grounds and Chuck Prophet at IOTA'
categories:
 - minutia
 - music
 - Chuck Prophet
---

please forgive me

just had a most interesting night.

first of all, i'm reading _Requiem_ by Curtis White for _the installation_, which is a very disturbing yet thought-provoking book. also (and not at all related to reading _Requiem_), I was having suicidal thoughts this afternoon and early evening. that's not the thing I would normally share. but that's just by way of context.

tonight I went to the Denison Witmer show at Common Grounds. beautiful was the only word that came to mind to describe it. definitely shoe-gazing music. not exactly uplifting. but beautiful. inspired me to write more beautiful songs about trips to swimming holes, friends, and ...well, feelings. it was a great vibe at Common Grounds.

I was really torn, because tonight was also Chuck Prophet at another club within walking distance of our apartment, IOTA. two awesome shows within walking distance! I know of Chuck via Ryan Adams; I have some Ryan Adams mp3s with Chuck on them. I chose to go to Denison's show because I wasn't up for a bar scene, and I don't regret it. but in the end I didn't have to settle so much.

on my way back from Common Grounds, walking right by IOTA, I stepped inside to see if he was still playing (this was around midnight). he was. only thing was I had exactly $0.00 cash. the Denison cover had cleaned me out. but the doorman let me in w/o paying the cover! how cool was that? I caught about an hour of what I would without hesitation rate as one of the top 5 shows i've ever been to. he is an amazing performer. listen to me: if you **ever** get the chance to see this guy live, **do it**! i'm hoping he comes back through town soon.

amazing. and the cool thing was, by the end of this old skinny dirty white guy's loud, raunchy set, I was happy again. I was clear again. I wasn't going to kill myself.

now I just wished i'd held off last night on buying those two Mallonee disks because pastemusic.com also has Denison and Chuck for sale on their site. oh well...just a little more shipping is all, I guess...

survivin'. dm.
