---
date: '2007-02-19 10:28:00'
layout: post
slug: mp3s-of-the-day-20
status: publish
title: mp3s of the day
categories:
 - lonely
 - love
 - mp3 of the day
---

Salim Nourallah, _Everybody Wants to be Loved_

> Ride your bike from school alone head home  
> Fight the tears don't cry you'll see in time  
> Everybody wants to be loved because, because  
>   
> In the sun you'll play by yourself be brave  
> Time will come when they'll see your true beauty  
> Everybody wants to be loved because, because  
>   
> It's not my fault, It's not my fault, It's not my fault  
> Your heart's a tomb your heart's a vault  
>   
> Watch you grow, fall down, don't despair, don't drown  
> Someone else will love you like we do  
> Everybody wants to be loved because, because  
> Everybody wants to be loved it's not enough  
> It's not enough...

Denison Witmer, _Are You Lonely?_

> Read the letter that you sent, but I can't  
> I was talking to our friends, but I'm stressed  
> Give me back a day, I know which one  
> Where the pink light of your room matched the pink light of the summer  
>   
> Are you lonely? Cause I've been lonely  
> Are you tired? Cause I've been tired  
> Another late night on the phone  
> To remind you just how close we've grown  
>   
> The drive to Michigan holds weight in me  
> Thought of someplace I could be myself  
> Though the Midwest feels so tired and scattered  
> We were hurt before, but that doesn't matter anymore, now  
>   
> Are you lonely? Cause I've been lonely  
> Are you tired? Cause I've been tired  
> Another late night in the car  
> To remind you just how close we are  
>   
> Since you've been away, every day's a phone call, it's an exit sign  
> How long will you stay? How long will it be until you come back again?  
>   
> Are you lonely? Cause I've been lonely  
> Are you tired? Cause I've been tired  
> Another late night in your room  
> To remind you of the lengths gone to  
