---
layout: post
title: "Q2 Reading"
excerpt: 
date: 2022-07-27 22:13:53 -0500
categories: 
---

**Books I've read, listened to on audiobook, or started in Q2, with very short reviews**

*Blood, Sweat, and Pixels*. Audiobook. I had bought it a while ago when it was on sale, started it and then let it sit for months. A series of true stories about the development of computer games. Excellent if you're into software.

*All-or-Nothing Marriage*. Audiobook. I read over half of this book a long time ago. Borrowed the audiobook from the library and finally finished it. A good book on marriage. 

*Bird by Bird*. Audiobook. Excellent book on writing I suspect would be highly enjoyable for any creative person. Highly recommended.

*Consider This*. Audiobook. Chuck Palahniuk is one of my favorite writers, so when I learned he had written a book on writing, I immediately put a hold on the audiobook. Not as good as _Bird by Bird_ but still really good and a recommendation from me.

*The Art of Letting Go*. Audiobook. I listened to a trifecta of Richard Rohr books with only _Consider This_ breaking up the trio. This was my favorite of the three. It's only available as audiobook.

*Falling Upward: A Spirituality for the Two Halves of Life*. Audiobook. By Rohr. Good.

*The Universal Christ*. Audiobook. By Rohr. Long but good. Basically a summation of my spiritual worldview.

**Still currently reading:**

*Meditations*

*A Philosophy of Software Design*

**Also currently reading:**

*The Savage Detectives*

*How (Not) to Speak of God*

*Range*

*The Left Hand of Darkness*. I did not finish but might pick it back up.

Basically what happened was I looked up a bunch of audiobooks on [Libby](https://libbyapp.com/) and put holds on them and then either listened to them (mostly on my commutes to and from work) or extended my hold on them until I could listen to them. It's worked out well in terms of increasing the volume of books I consume. I've _mostly_ stopped listening to podcasts.
