---
layout: post
title: "I Chose"
excerpt: 
date: 2025-01-23 06:34:54 -0600
categories: 
 - elsewhere
 - quotable
---

[sara hendren: choosing](https://sarahendren.com/2025/01/20/choosing/)

> In middle age, looking back, it is the subtlest shift that shifts everything: from the late adolescent who says _I really must choose the best path_ to the young adult who says _I chose the best path_, at least for me to, finally, simply: _I chose_. I chose and it might have been otherwise. I chose, with some combination of seeking prudence and exercising heedless whimsy and life arriving in its made-available forms. The forms made _un_-available still stand --- somewhere, uncountable. If my choices had been different, everything would have been just..._different_: a quantum rippling.

[everything changes: Choosing](https://everythingchanges.us/blog/choosing/)

> When I talk to my clients about making choices, I am wont to inquire into the reflexive language of making the best or right choice; such adjectives can usually only be applied in hindsight, with all the bias that perspective entails. Better to think about making a choice as a [creative act](https://everythingchanges.us/blog/making-decisions/), as an exercise of your agency and will, as a kind of small, brief, bright movement. The outcome of which you will never fully know.

I have nothing to add to the original posts. I found the first through the second, which was waiting for me in my neglected [RSS reader](https://feedbin.com). This is the best of this recent resurgence of blogging. So much packed into these two paragraphs.

It's been a rough week. This sort of thing---away from the storms, thoughtful, deep water---was needed.
