---
date: '2001-09-18T13:19:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Somehow the artistic side of my head finds connections between this and Jesus Christ Superstar. I was in a record store the day of the tragedy, browsing. At first they had the news on, but it was too much for all of us there, I think. They then put on Jesus Christ Superstar. Amazing choice. It was just what I needed.
<br />
<br />HEAVEN ON THEIR MINDS 
<br />
<br />(Judas) 
<br />
<br />My mind is clearer now
<br />At last
<br />All too well
<br />I can see
<br />Where we all
<br />Soon will be
<br />If you strip away
<br />The myth
<br />From the man
<br />You will see
<br />Where we all
<br />Soon will be 
<br />
<br />Jesus! 
<br />
<br />You've started to believe
<br />The things they say of you
<br />You really do believe
<br />This talk of God is true 
<br />
<br />And all the good you've done
<br />Will soon be swept away
<br />You've begun to matter more
<br />Than the things you say 
<br />
<br />Listen Jesus
<br />I don't like what I see
<br />All I ask is that you listen to me
<br />And remember
<br />I've been your right hand man all along
<br />You have set them all on fire
<br />They think they've found the new Messiah
<br />And they'll hurt you when they find they're wrong 
<br />
<br />I remember when this whole thing began
<br />No talk of God then, we called you a man
<br />And believe me
<br />My admiration for you hasn't died
<br />But every word you say today
<br />Gets twisted 'round some other way
<br />And they'll hurt you if they think you've lied 
<br />
<br />Nazareth's most famous son
<br />Should have stayed a great unknown
<br />Like his father carving wood
<br />He'd have made good
<br />Tables, chairs and oaken chests
<br />Would have suited Jesus best
<br />He'd have caused nobody harm
<br />No one alarm 
<br />
<br />Listen Jesus, do you care for your race?
<br />Don't you see we must keep in our place?
<br />We are occupied
<br />Have you forgotten how put down we are?
<br />I am frightened by the crowd
<br />For we are getting much too loud
<br />And they'll crush us if we go too far
<br />If we go too far 
<br />
<br />Listen Jesus to the warning I give
<br />Please remember that I want us to live
<br />But it's sad to see our chances weakening with ev'ry hour
<br />All your followers are blind
<br />Too much heaven on their minds
<br />It was beautiful, but now it's sour
<br />Yes it's all gone sour
<br />Ah --- ah ah ah --- ah
<br />God Jesus, it's all gone sour 
<br />
<br />Listen Jesus to the warning I give
<br />Please remember that I want us to live
<br />So come on, come on, listen to me.
<br />Ah --- ah
<br />Come on, listen, listen to me.
<br />Come on and listen to me.
<br />Ah --- ah 
<br />
<br />WHAT'S THE BUZZ / STRANGE THINGS MYSTIFYING 
<br />
<br />(Apostles) 
<br />What's the buzz
<br />Tell me what's a-happening 
<br />
<br />(Jesus) 
<br />
<br />Why should you want to know?
<br />Don't you mind about the future
<br />Don't you try to think ahead
<br />Save tomorrow for tomorrow
<br />Think about today instead
<br />I could give you facts and figures
<br />I could give you plans and forecasts
<br />Even tell you where I'm going 
<br />
<br />(Apostles) 
<br />
<br />When do we
<br />Ride to Jerusalem? 
<br />
<br />(Jesus) 
<br />
<br />Why should you want to know
<br />Why are you obsessed with fighting
<br />Times and fates you can't defy?
<br />If you knew the path we're riding
<br />You'd understand it less than I 
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />Here's the beginning of my blog. Here's what's transpired on email thusfar:
<br />
<br />Fellow mappers:
<br />
<br />I have been following the thread spawned by the Falwell comments with great interest. Since many of you are theologins, I thought you could help pin down the existing work on this. Here's my starting point:
<br />
<br />From what I've seen in my experience and with this list, there is a continuum in thinking from:
<br />
<br />Bad things as God's judgement for sin.......God's in charge and allows things.......God loves and gives us free will
<br />
<br />I'm sure there are variations on all this, and please provide them -- things are never this linear, however I'll try to keep the diagram 2D just for my own mind's sake.
<br />
<br />What are the texts that support any position?
<br />
<br />I don't have any problem with the middle one, what a few emails have expressed....however I believe the far left is destructive and antithetical to love, which I see as the heart of the gospel. 
<br />
<br />The people who hold to that also usually idolize the bible, so I need to know what passages support their ideas, and which support mine. While I do not think the bible unimportant, I approach it in a different way and don't have the benefit of being able to rip old testament verses out of context to support my point of view. I need to know which verses are used to support that kind of thinking and what other verses or what context helps to refute it.
<br />
<br />If you honestly hold to the far left there, please feel free to refute my ideas, as it will help me understand more.
<br />
<br />Thanks all. Can you tell I want to talk to my father in law about this? :) 
<br />
<br />Daniel
<br />
<br />PS:
<br />
<br />John Wrote:
<br />>I had a women 
<br />>tell me last week that it had to be all Satan's doing...
<br />>Falwell and others like him seem to need a tangible evil to project 
<br />>their wrath upon.
<br />
<br />Where does the "Satan's doing" fit onto graph?
<br />
<br />Dan writes regarding the moderate/reformed view (I'm already seeing the "continuum" as a circle):
<br />>>>>>>>>>>>
<br />Of course this unimaginable horror stirs afresh the centuries old 
<br />theological problem of God's role in tragic disasters perpetrated
<br />by malicious individuals.  This despicable act pressures all of us
<br />to raise serious and important questions about God and His 
<br />involvement in His universe.  The overwhelming suffering and death
<br />resulting from these terrorist acts moves us to ponder with fresh
<br />intensity, the whole complex nature of what we call a Christian
<br />view of reality.  There are deep emotional reactions by people
<br />who see so much evil in such an event, they want to clearly keep
<br />God out of it.  His actions come *after* such a tragedy; He stays
<br />clear of these events before they occur.  These people could not
<br />imagine a good and loving God even remotely associated with 
<br />such evil.
<br />
<br />There are those who see a direct relationship between the sins of
<br />America and God's wrath.  Falwell, is obviously one of them.
<br />He was of course one of the outspoken ones to see this direct
<br />relationship between AIDS and the judgment of God in the 80's. 
<br />I don't see how a Christian can entirely ignore this relationship for
<br />there are a wealth of passages in the Old and New Testaments which
<br />reveal this relationship.  I know there are Christians who have great
<br />difficulty wrestling with a view of God's love and God's wrath.  For
<br />them, this difficulty is settled by explaining the texts which portray
<br />God's wrath as something Biblical writers perceive from their own
<br />cultural prejudices, rather than an accurate portrayal of the God who 
<br />loves.  It *seems* to me like we use one set of passages to affirm what
<br />we think portrays God and then explain away the force of other passages
<br />which we don't think portrays God.  Of course, then, if we end up doing
<br />it that way, could we not be also guilty of a Western cultural bias of our
<br />own time which imposes its view of God upon a series of texts?
<br />
<br />Coming from a reformed perspective, I don't see how we can eliminate
<br />every trace of God's pre-involvement with a tragic event like this.  I cherish
<br />God's ultimate sovereignty over an evil act such as this.  I see too many passages
<br />which affirm God's pre-involvement over evil acts such like this.  The biggest
<br />one of course is the death of Jesus Christ.  God was not asleep at the wheel
<br />as it were, when a human being was cruelly and brutally tortured upon the
<br />hard wood of the cross.  I don't think the New Testament portrays God as
<br />standing by the cosmic sidelines, as it were, while His Son was beaten,
<br />scourged, and crucified by the Jewish and Roman governments.  Do you
<br />think so?  Was the tragedy of Sep 11. a greater tragedy than the tragedy of
<br />the cross?  I am curious how you would answer someone who would ask you
<br />about God's pre-involvement with the violent act of the cross?
<br />
<br />>A lot of people I know can't get their mind around the idea of God 
<br />>NOT directing or commanding it.  That is a pretty awful idea of God
<br />>to live with.
<br />
<br />I can't help but think that this is as much of a sweeping generalization
<br />as Falwell's, is it not?  This *appears* to be lumping me, embracing a
<br />reformed view, with the sweeping generalization and condemnation of
<br />Falwell.  First of all, not to defend Falwell at every point, heaven forbid,
<br />but to just acknowledge my friend, there is a prima facie case for someone
<br />who reads the Bible, to embrace a view of God directing this or commanding
<br />this.  Would you at least agree with that observation?
<br />
<br />Lamentations 3:32 "Though He *brings grief* (and the context reveals the nature
<br />of this grief) he will show compassion, so great is His unfailing love."
<br />There are scores of texts like this in the Scriptures.  And it is *very plausible* to
<br />embrace a complex theology where God *brings grief* while His love is *unfailing.*
<br />Now, you may not embrace that theology.  But are you any different than Falwell
<br />when you start pointing your finger at those who do with such a blanket generalization
<br />against those who do?
<br />
<br />I have pastoral objections with Falwell's scathing generalization.  I affirm the freedom
<br />of God to judge a nation.  How could I otherwise?  The Bible is filled with stories
<br />and illustrations which affirm such a reality.  But I have troubles with affirming anyone
<br />attributing an evil act with exhaustive knowledge clarity, that God is immediately
<br />judging a nation turning towards sexual sins and secular sins.  This I do struggle with.
<br />
<br />I struggle with someone making such a comment like Falwell did without
<br />a discernment for embracing God's heart while millions of people are suffering from
<br />such terrible lost of life.  I stand to be corrected here, but as I understand what
<br />Falwell did in the 80's was to criticize and judge the homosexual community without
<br />demonstrating God's heart to that suffering community.  There exists a certain kind
<br />of abstract theological musings by some with no clue about expressing God's heart to the
<br />broken and wounded.  These people may or may not have been responsible for
<br />choosing to act in such a way as to bring a physical destruction upon them.  But even
<br />if one accepts that as a possibility it does not mean the absence of God's heart, the
<br />absence of God's affections, the absence of God's compassions towards victims of
<br />their own circumstances.
<br />
<br />At this hour, with so many asking questions and wrestling with death and suffering,
<br />I struggle with those who are not immediately pointing people to God's heart and
<br />compassion for those who are broken.  Regardless of what "label" they wore or are
<br />wearing, the Church should be expressing God's heart towards them and pointing
<br />them to God's heart.  From a reformed perspective, theologically speaking, this event
<br />was "ordained" (there is a loaded theological term if there ever was one) by God.
<br />But this "ordained" relationship or mystery is not an abstract theological impersonal
<br />decree done by a conniving and sinister God.  The reformed distinction has been that
<br />God does ordain what He also "disapproves" with His whole heart.  Surely, God's
<br />heart did not enjoy His Son dying on a cross.  But this was an event planned before time.
<br />God's decree does not always indicate God's affections or heart.  Granted, there is an
<br />incredible mystery which at some point, every believer has to acknowledge.  There is
<br />indeed, a deep complexity about the heart of God, about the plans of God, about the
<br />being of God and the question of evil acts which we will never fathom.
<br />
<br />However, as we sang in the chorus yesterday...
<br />"You are the God of the broken, the friend of the weak,
<br />You wash the feet of the weary, Embrace the ones in need."
<br />
<br />Any theology which does not express that kind of vision of God towards those
<br />who are hurting at this time is missing God's heart.  I don't embrace what Falwell
<br />has said.  But I am not ready to throw out God's sovereignty over such an event.
<br /><<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />Subject: Re: Talbot and Falwell
<br />
<br />*While I do respect Talbot as a person and a musician* (please believe me!),
<br />I was troubled by his thoroughly modern cause-and-effect search for
<br />meta-meaning, and out of all of his comments, I must absolutely disagree
<br />with the following:
<br />
<br />>Lastly, there is the symbol of the airlines that were hijacked and crashed.
<br />>This may seem a bit obscure, but it too has a lesson of repentance to
<br />teach.
<br />>These represent the new western lifestyle of families and businesses being
<br />>spread our across a cities, states, and countries of a continent, and the
<br />>continents of the world, and so many having to travel almost constantly to
<br />>do business. This is also connected in some ways to the expansion of
<br />>consumerism and materialism addressed above.
<br />
<br />How can he link our expanding world culture and economy to consumerism and
<br />materialism? The worst materialists I know are stuck right here in south
<br />Florida because they're so busy making money that they don't have time to
<br />even GO TO THE PARK! And some of the least materialistic/cosumeristic people
<br />I know travel a great deal. While the tone of his entire message sat wrong
<br />with me, this particular passage was indeed "obscure." I need to repent
<br />because I live in Florida but my work takes me to NJ? I agree that community
<br />sucks in this country and needs to be re-emphasized, but his comments smack
<br />of ignorance to the realities of planet Earth circa 2001.
<br />
<br />...Granted his "connected in some ways" is a large out to either create a
<br />closer or more abstract connection...either way he should've kept this to
<br />himself for a few more hours... :)
<br />
<br />---------------
<br />>From: Chris 
<br />>Subject: An Afghan-American Speaks:
<br />
<br />Thanks Chris for this info. Very helpful.
<br />
<br />
<br />>From: "Jordon 
<br />>Subject: Blame - Falwell
<br />
<br />>I don't know how many of you have seen this but here is ABCNews.com's
<br />article on Falwell's comments
<br />>about the WTC.  -
<br />http://dailynews.yahoo.com/h/abc/20010916/pl/wtc_falwell010914_1.html
<br />
<br />Thanks Jordon for this info. I am sick over it. This is exactly what I mean
<br />by the search for meta-meaning hurting other people. I could hardly believe
<br />the retractions at the end of the article. Clearly, they are showing hate
<br />towards those groups with their statements, no matter what they try to say
<br />afterward.
<br />
<br />All: Almost right after penning my email about meta-meaning to you, I went
<br />to my in-laws for lunch and had a very similar discussion...my
<br />father-in-law's take on it was that the country was being judged for
<br />rebelling against god. I argued on his ground for a while: Out of all the
<br />countries in the world, which is the most "Christian" according to your
<br />definition? (USA) Therefore which country would be the least likely to be
<br />"judged" according to your logic? (USA) What about Slovakia, they are much
<br />less "Christian" according to your definition, why aren't THEY being
<br />"judged" this way? (they are being judged, this and that, economy) ...Got
<br />him down to "So everything is cause and effect, our behavior causes God's
<br />judgement/blessing? (yes, everything! {aside: this was a big deal to pin him
<br />down to something like this, and also deeply troubling}) Then what about
<br />Miriam's skin? Her pain is because of something she did then? (yes was the
<br />answer, even more troubling) ...We ended by just saying, well, we'll never
<br />believe in that, certainly not today, so let's just end it there.
<br />
<br />Still, I sympathize with people's need for meaning.
<br />
<br />One more thing I'm brought to in my thinking is a little story I wrote for
<br />something we did a while back called "Creative Bible Writing." I talk about
<br />the religious right and even use a quote from Dobson, replacing the person
<br />he was talking about's name with Jesus'. It's helped me think about how
<br />Jesus might have responded to these events (even though I obviously didn't
<br />write about anything like that!...I was mirroring Bible stories from the
<br />gospels). Here is it
<br />http://www.geocities.com/dealingwith/bible_writing_jesus.htm
<br />
<br />Cheers,
<br />
<br />dealingwith
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />The first requirement of my psychology upon the knowledge of the events of
<br />Sept. 11: meaning.
<br />
<br />As I read the posts on this list of fellow journeymen and women dealing with
<br />the same tragedy, I see that this is a common thread.
<br />
<br />**Aside
<br />Although I am troubled by the marginalization on this issue down age-old
<br />lines of armenianism and calvinism, I would like to post my thoughts, as
<br />this event has altered my thinking on meaning to a substantial degree.
<br />
<br />Admittedly, I have consistently erred on the side of armenianism throughout
<br />many other changes in my personal beliefs and practices. So responses like
<br />"why did God allow this" do trouble me to some degree. However, my thoughts
<br />on meanings do not so easily fit into these a_ or c_ stereotypes. Having a
<br />world view that somewhat resembles what has become stereotyped as
<br />post-modernism, I'm free to hold to both sides of the a-c "continuum" 100%.
<br />I think meaning transcends that debate.
<br />**/Aside
<br />
<br />What I would like to comment on, I guess, is the apparent search for
<br />meta-meaning among 'mappers, and I think much of the general public. Even
<br />among terrorists.
<br />
<br />While for me, meaning still maintains a 25% hold on my mission/vision, and
<br />in my heart still describes a characteristic of God, my search for
<br />meta-meaning, while already on hold to a great degree, or at least
<br />abstracted to irrelevance, ended on Sept 11, 2001.
<br />
<br />Justifying the death of thousands as a lesson from God to his church is, IM
<br />not-so-humble O, unjustifiable, particularly with such little benefit of
<br />history. Those deaths were obviously justifiable in the minds of the
<br />perpetrators, as a lesson to all of western society and culture.
<br />
<br />**Aside
<br />If meta-meaning is necessary for you psychology, I guess that I just ask
<br />that you publically air your conclusions well after the period of mourning,
<br />which, BTW, has not even begun for some who still do not know for sure the
<br />final fate of their loved ones. Justifying someone's loss in the light of
<br />"greater purpose" always feels very uncompassionate, IMHO. The pursuit of
<br />meta-meaning by 3rd parties is better left until individuals experiencing
<br />the tragedy 1st person have had time to personally deal with it (even if in
<br />their dealing, they use the same approach).
<br />**/Aside
<br />
<br />**Main Point
<br />However, refrencing sentence #1, I am not diminishing our common need to
<br />deal with this experience with the light of finding meaning. So here is my
<br />first attempt at a response within this light. It is the introduction to my
<br />next installation, and without the art that follows it may be a little
<br />orphaned. Please read it as such:
<br />
<br />------------
<br />"Abuse" isn't the right word, but it's the first one that comes to mind.
<br />See Also: Confusion
<br />See Also: Horror
<br />See Also: Tears
<br />See Also: Hate
<br />
<br />This work began as a response to the first hate mail Miriam or I have ever
<br />received. I'm sure it will not be the last, however as the first it had a
<br />great affect on us.
<br />
<br />Three days later, on September 11 2001, the most terrible act of my lifetime
<br />occurred in New York City and Washington D.C.
<br />
<br />Without knowing how to respond to these acts of abuse and hatred on both a
<br />micro and a macro scale, I immediately searched for meaning.
<br />
<br />I'm convinced there is none.
<br />
<br />This work, therefore, is about that struggle to find meaning in the face of
<br />both small and inconceivably large pain.
<br />
<br />There is no universal meaning for abuse, hate, terrorism, bigotry. There are
<br />only small connections we can make each day that keep scraps of sanity in
<br />our cupboards of life.
<br />
<br />This work is about my attempt at a few small connections.
<br />------------
<br />------------
<br />
<br />Also, thanks Bilbo for the perspective from WWI. I have wondered if part of
<br />the terrorists' intentions is to initiate just such an event.
<br />
<br />Cheers,
<br />
<br />dealingwith
<br />
