---
date: '2001-09-18T17:58:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

John,
<br />
<br />We are definately trying to understand the understandable. Hence the word "god"! To me that predetermines a never ending pursuit. 
<br />
<br />The larger question is what paradigms about God are healthy and which hurtful?
<br />
<br />I still believe in an omnipotent God, but I don't believe in a God that predetermines everything or controls every event--not even close.
<br />
<br />Can He/She be above all and still let things go?
<br />
<br />If He could've stopped things last week, but didn't, then is He by default "allowing" this to happen, and if you believe that, then is He by default "judging" us? I think no to both, but they are logical jumps and jumps I think many evangelicals are making. Unfortunately, the consequence of this jump is to look for the reason for the "judgment", which means judging others, which is the opposite of Love. I think Jesus made it very clear when he said he was here to love, not judge. We are apparently to follow that example!
<br />
<br />One possible outcome in our thinking and paradigms is to accept the fact that we'll never know what God's role in terrible events like these is. He's unknowable to the fullest extent in the final analysis. Of course evangelicals would disagree, pointing to scriptures as the authoritive "word of God." That's a whole 'nother bag o' worms, however I think we can use that to prove both a)God's unknowableness (nice word, eh) (the scriptures definately say something to this effect) and b)God is not raining down rath through terrorists in 2001
<br />
<br />If you can, insert links here to books and scripture (use <a href="http://www.amazon.com">Amazon </a><a href="http://www.biblegateway.com"></a>and Biblegateway). Use the insert hyperlink button, which is the farthest left button of the series of buttons on the upper left (sorry if you knew that already).
