---
date: '2001-09-21T17:29:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

MILITARY HISTORIAN SPEAKS
<br />
<br />An academic advisor at the Air Force Academy wrote the following, 
<br />which we believe everyone possible should read. 
<br />
<br />From: Dr. Tony Kern, Lt Col, USAF (Ret)
<br />
<br />Recently, I was asked to look at the recent events through the lens 
<br />of military history. I have joined the cast of thousands who have 
<br />written an "open letter to Americans."
<br />
<br />
<br />Dear friends and fellow Americans 14 September, 2001
<br />
<br />Like everyone else in this great country, I am reeling from last week's 
<br />attack on our sovereignty. But unlike some, I am not reeling from 
<br />surprise. As a career soldier and a student and teacher of military 
<br />history, I have a different perspective and I think you should hear it. 
<br />This war will be won or lost by the American citizens, not diplomats, 
<br />politicians or soldiers.
<br />
<br />Let me briefly explain.
<br />
<br />In spite of what the media, and even our own government is telling us, 
<br />this act was not committed by a group of mentally deranged fanatics. To 
<br />dismiss them as such would be among the gravest of mistakes. This attack 
<br />was committed by a ferocious, intelligent and dedicated adversary. Don't 
<br />take this the wrong way. I don't admire these men and I deplore their
<br />tactics, 
<br />but I respect their capabilities. The many parallels that have been made 
<br />with the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor are apropos. Not only because it 
<br />was a brilliant sneak attack against a complacent America, but also because 
<br />we may well be pulling our new adversaries out of caves 30 years after we 
<br />think this war is over, just like my father's generation had to do with
<br />the formidable Japanese in the years following WW II.
<br />
<br />These men hate the United States with all of their being, and we must 
<br />not underestimate the power of their moral commitment. Napoleon, perhaps 
<br />the world's greatest combination of soldier and statesman, stated "the 
<br />moral is to the physical as three is to one." Patton thought the Frenchman 
<br />underestimated its importance and said moral conviction was five times more 
<br />important in battle than physical strength. Our enemies are willing --  
<br />better said anxious -- to give their lives for their cause. How committed 
<br />are we America? And for how long?
<br />
<br />In addition to demonstrating great moral conviction, the recent attack 
<br />demonstrated a mastery of some of the basic fundamentals of warfare taught 
<br />to most military officers worldwide, namely simplicity, security and 
<br />surprise. When I first heard rumors that some of these men may have been 
<br />trained at our own Air War College, it made perfect sense to me. This was
<br />not a random act of violence, and we can expect the same sort of military 
<br />competence to be displayed in the battle to come. This war will escalate, 
<br />with a good portion of it happening right here in the good ol' U.S. of A.
<br />
<br />These men will not go easily into the night. They do not fear us. We must 
<br />not fear them. In spite of our overwhelming conventional strength as the 
<br />world's only "superpower" (a truly silly term), we are the underdog in this 
<br />fight. As you listen to the carefully scripted rhetoric designed to prepare 
<br />us for the march for war, please realize that America is not equipped or 
<br />seriously trained for the battle ahead. To be certain, our soldiers are much
<br />
<br />better than the enemy, and we have some excellent "counter-terrorist" 
<br />organizations, but they are mostly trained for hostage rescues, airfield 
<br />seizures, or the occasional "body snatch," (which may come in handy). We
<br />will 
<br />be fighting a war of annihilation, because if their early efforts are any 
<br />indication, our enemy is ready and willing to die to the last man.
<br />Eradicating 
<br />the enemy will be costly and time consuming. They have already deployed
<br />their 
<br />forces in as many as 20 countries, and are likely living the lives of
<br />everyday 
<br />citizens. Simply put, our soldiers will be tasked with a search and destroy 
<br />mission on multiple foreign landscapes, and the public must be patient and 
<br />supportive until the strategy and tactics can be worked out.
<br />
<br />For the most part, our military is still in the process of redefining itself
<br />
<br />and presided over by men and women who grew up with - and were promoted 
<br />because they excelled in - Cold War doctrine, strategy and tactics. This
<br />will 
<br />not be linear warfare, there will be no clear "centers of gravity" to strike
<br />
<br />with high technology weapons. Our vast technological edge will certainly be 
<br />helpful, but it will not be decisive. Perhaps the perfect metaphor for the 
<br />coming battle was introduced by the terrorists themselves aboard the
<br />hijacked 
<br />aircraft -- this will be a knife fight, and it will be won or lost by the 
<br />ingenuity and will of citizens and soldiers, not by software or smart bombs.
<br />
<br />We must also be patient with our military leaders.
<br />
<br />Unlike Americans who are eager to put this messy time behind us, our 
<br />adversaries have time on their side, and they will use it. They plan 
<br />to fight a battle of attrition, hoping to drag the battle out until the 
<br />American public loses its will to fight. This might be difficult to believe 
<br />in this euphoric time of flag waving and patriotism, but it is generally 
<br />acknowledged that America lacks the stomach for a long fight. We need only 
<br />look as far back as Vietnam, when North Vietnamese General Vo Nguyen Giap 
<br />(also a military history teacher) defeated the United States of America 
<br />without ever winning a major tactical battle. American soldiers who marched 
<br />to war cheered on by flag waving Americans in 1965 were reviled and spat
<br />upon 
<br />less than three years later when they returned. Although we hope that Usama 
<br />Bin Laden is no Giap, he is certain to understand and employ the concept. 
<br />
<br />We can expect not only large doses of pain like the recent attacks, but also
<br />
<br />less audacious "sand in the gears" tactics, ranging from livestock 
<br />infestations to attacks at water and food supplies and power distribution 
<br />facilities.
<br />
<br />These attacks are designed to hit us in our "comfort zone" forcing the 
<br />average American to "pay more and play less" and eventually eroding our 
<br />resolve. But it can only work if we let it. It is clear to me that the will 
<br />of the American citizenry - you and I - is the center of gravity the enemy 
<br />has targeted. It will be the fulcrum upon which victory or defeat will turn.
<br />
<br />He believes us to be soft, impatient, and self-centered. He may be right, 
<br />but if so, we must change. The Prussian general Carl von Clausewitz, (the 
<br />most often quoted and least read military theorist in history), says that 
<br />there is a "remarkable trinity of war" that is composed of the (1) will of 
<br />the people, (2) the political leadership of the government, and (3) the 
<br />chance and probability that plays out on the field of battle, in that order.
<br />
<br />Every American citizen was in the crosshairs of last Tuesday's attack, not 
<br />just those that were unfortunate enough to be in the World Trade Center or 
<br />Pentagon. 
<br />
<br />The will of the American people will decide this war. If we are to win, it 
<br />will be because we have what it takes to persevere through a few more hits, 
<br />learn from our mistakes, improvise, and adapt. If we can do that, we will 
<br />eventually prevail. 
<br />
<br />Everyone I've talked to in the past few days has shared a common
<br />frustration, 
<br />saying in one form or another "I just wish I could do something!" You are 
<br />already doing it. Just keep faith in America, and continue to support your 
<br />President, the military, and their decisions the outcome is certain. If, on 
<br />the other hand, we lose our faith, our resolve and fail to do so, the
<br />outcome 
<br />is equally certain.
<br />
<br />God Bless America
<br />
<br />/s/ Dr. Tony Kern, Lt Col, USAF (Ret)
<br />Former Director of Military History
<br />U.S. Air Force Academy
<br />
