---
date: '2001-09-24T02:47:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Hey Rebecca, I didn't mean to stop talking about the politics of the issues, I just meant that I wasn't educated or emotionally involved enough intelligently speak to those issues. I would love if you continued.
<br />
<br />On an issue where I am so involved, today I watched on tv the memorial service at Yankee Stadium. If there were a definition of true worship that would be it. If in simply the power of unity amongst diversity. I have rarely been so moved by a "service" yet alone one I'm watching on the television. I think that the experience speaks volumes about true worship.
<br />
<br />I was also thinking that we all make our own worship through the meanings, and the activities that create those meanings, that we develop and hold to through our own experience and our own dealing with {fill in the blank}. 
<br />
<br />I was thinking of <a href="http://www.geocities.com/dealingwith/story1/story_night.htm">the last little "worship experience"</a> I created, first for myself, then shared with those close to me. It had in its very nature a nature of difficulty because the spiritual nature of it was so abstract. Looking at the results certainly attests to that. However when the spirituality is abstracted to such a degree, it is easy to miss the point of transcendence or reverence...and while humor and fun is certainly a part of life and therefore worship, there is a point where humor moves to sarcasm moves to veiled attack. In some other words, there was a meaning and a purpose behind what we did, and some people, even if they did not connect intellectually with it, they connected on a spiritual level with it ...while others did not look for spiritual significance.
<br />
<br />I have no idea where I'm going with that...
<br />
<br />Except to say that I think worship is going to become more and more integrated and diverse, or I should say our realization of worshipful experiences or reverent transcendence, much like the memorial service today in NYC. And for me, my art is that reverent transcendence, "seeking :: stories :: beauty :: meaning" really does encapsulate all that I am attempting to create. To capture a small piece of the infinate Creator. But how do I realize that in light of a spiritually dull world?
<br />
<br />...aside: in that vein, I am finding myself more and more drawn to the artist community at large. And it turns out that homosexuals are more predominant within that community than they are within the community at large. While for some time I have perferred the company of homosexuals because they actually demonstrate Godly characteristics like unconditional love, etc., the emotional depths that a true artist much reach is making for, while not gay sexually, a much more emotionally androgenous dealingwith. I also think this is due to a marriage where each of us are equal partners, where there is no hierarchy, is to cause for some of this. Many would have a problem with all the previous statements, and <a href="http://hatemail.blogspot.com">"hate mail"</a> is a response to someone who obviously felt I must be dickless to want to pursue art with my life. However it is those close to a spiritual center described by not just those four words of <a href="http://www.danielsjourney.com">djdc's</a> tenent, but by many qualities--qualities unfortunately absent from much of the world, particularly in the Christian world.
<br />
<br />...and in the vein of what to do with our lives; as Miriam and I continue to struggle with that; I thought today that such a crisis as these last 12 days have been for all of us, what we turn to really demonstrates what is closest to our hearts: I turned to my art, in this case <a href="http://hatemail.blogspot.com">my already in-process installation preperations, "hate mail;"</a> for Rebecca, political activism and a realization that she is indeed a closet lobbyist (sp?). For John (please any of you correct me if I'm off) a refocus on the true qualities of God through the lens of his experience with family, specifically a multi-racial/cultural family and lifestyle.
<br />
<br />...and in light of my thing-that-is-closest-to-my-heart, I realized (even though it's been told plain to my face already) that being an artist has nothing to do with the art you create, but rather on a decision on how you spend your life. Almost every great artist, save a small percentage of "pop" artists (particularly those in "pop" entertainment--music and film and most rarely literature), lives a poor life. The phrase starving artist doesn't exist for nothing! But in the lens of history their contribution is great. {highly recommend the movie "Pollock"}
<br />
<br />Note on blogger bugs: Rebecca et al, what I've been doing is copying what I've typed to the clipboard (cntrl+C) real quick before I hit post or post&publish (I realized there should be no difference between the two, one simply sends one command to the server, the other 2 commands, but one after the other). That way if it blows up, I can just paste it all back into this window and try again.
