---
date: '2001-09-20T17:22:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Rebecca,
<br />
<br />I've had time to think about it now and just wonder about this point of view:
<br />
<br />We've all had experiences where we've wanted to understand another view and tried to understand someone, but it was like banging our heads against the proverbial wall. A recent incident involving the entity known as Impact comes to mind. M and I really tried to understand Greg's POV, and we DO understand his POV--but that doesn't justify his actions, and he feels absolutely justified in those actions. No one is going to change his view of the circumstances, save God Himself. So we don't continue to associate with him anymore. Simple.
<br />
<br />I have a feeling if the people who perpetrated these crimes had a heart to truly share their views, I think there are better ways to get our attention. In fact, if we try, as many have now, since Sept 11, to hear the views of Arab people, we may in fact hear from those voicing their concerns over the middle east and the west; from balanced persons willing to engage in dialog and mutual understanding in a non-violent manner. 
<br />
<br />The terrorists have violated the human contract that we all make with each other through our collective conscience. That conscience is challenged by the world culture we live in these days, but to drown it out completely is a perpetuation of evil. In other words, there is definately light and darkness in this world, and only those in light can communicate differing views and actual try to achieve understanding. Those in darkness must be dealt with differently, be it as simple as not interfacing with them anymore, in our micro-scale experience, or with more extreme measures (whatever that means) on this macro-scale injustice.
<br />
<br />I agree that this country is f-d up in some major ways, has very evil elements to it. But all human endevours will.
<br />
<br />I can't help but think this global peace and understanding idea is such a recent one. Before that, it was whoever has the biggest army wins. It's just that in the way the world has shrunk and our destructive power has grown that war has become such a disqusting thing to ponder.
<br />
<br />One other thought. I've walked through the Arab part of Jerusalem (by accident). It was really scary. We were not welcomed. Their mind was made up about us based on the color of our skin and the clothes we wore. The same way the terrorists had made up their mind about the "west." They didn't take time to understand the lives of all the people they killed.
<br />
<br />Please don't interpret this as eye for an eye. I just don't think the terrorists or the people that support them care about being understood or care about understanding any more than the war hawks in this country care about it. They are war hawks too. Even more determined than we are, I'm sure. They have no public opinion to win over, they have no country to keep together in the meantime. And they feel completely justified and are willing to hear nothing else.
