---
date: '2001-12-12T17:01:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<b>Partitioned Space for Meditation and Reflection C&E Services</b>
<br /> 
<br /><small>in association with</small>
<br /> 
<br />Apartment Churches Concensoratory Conglomerative
<br /> 
<br /><small>in further association with</small>
<br /> 
<br />the as-yet-still-not-registered integrationresearch dot org intellectual storehouse
<br /> 
<br /><small>brought to you by the letter</small>
<br /> 
<br />J
<br /> 
<br /><small>and the numeral (hexidecimal)</small>
<br /> 
<br />FFFFFFFFFFFFFE68
<br /> 
<br /><small>with an negative endowment from</small>
<br /> 
<br />People withOut nO Resources
<br /> 
<br />presents
<br /> 
<br /><b>Christmas eve-eve pot-luck litergy</b>
<br /> 
<br />Sunday, December 23, 2001, 9pm
<br /> 
<br />at the Gravatt home:
<br /><a href="http://www.mapquest.com/maps/map.adp?country=US&address=4365+SW+10th+Pl&city=&state=&zipcode=33442&homesubmit.x=14&homesubmit.y=5">4365 SW 10th Pl, apt. 104, Deerfield Beach, Fl, 33442</a>
<br />
<br />Here are the rules:
<br /> 
<br />You bring the service with you. Bring one or two elements of worship that you specifically connect with and be ready to implement them in the above setting (an apartment living room). If it just sits there, then bring everything it needs to sit there. If it is more overtly participatory, be prepared to faciliate that participation. Don't take our whole night, but we will be otherwise very tolerant of form and function.
<br /> 
<br />There are always those people that come to pot-lucks w/o bringing any food. Sometimes they grab something really quick at Publix on their way over. If you find yourself doing this, then at least buy the organic chips, if you know what I mean.
<br /> 
<br />On the subject of literal food, feel free to bring something. But only after you've prepared your portion of the service. Cuz w/o you all, there will be no service! Get it? Good.
<br /> 
<br />Please <a href="mailto:dealingwith@yahoo.com">email </a>me with your rsvp and general needs/time frame for the service.
<br /> 
<br />Cheers,
<br />
