---
date: '2001-10-16T13:50:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<a href="http://members.aol.com/excognito/capond.html">Good News/Bad News</a>
<br />From "The Astonished Heart: Reclaiming the Good News from the Lost-and-Found of Church History", Wm B Eerdmans Publishing Co. 1996 
<br />
<br />On, then, with a look at the new models of the church currently on the market. ...
<br />
<br />MODELS WE'RE ALREADY BUYING:
<br /> The New Corporate Model;
<br /> The Mega-Church Model;
<br /> The Professionalism-of-the-Clergy Model;
<br /> The Renewal Models, comprising 
<br />the Church-Growth movement,
<br />the Spiritual/Charismatic Model,
<br />and the Cursillo/Marriage-Encounter Model;
<br /> The Church-as-Advocacy-Group Model
<br />
<br />
<br />MODELS WE HAVE YET TO CONSIDER:
<br /> The Alcoholics Anonymous Model;
<br /> The Marginal-Church Model 
<br />
<br />The Mega-Church Model (meets California emission standards, but can't stop at the edge of a cliff). Like Jeremiah speaking to Israel before the Captivity, I have not a kind word to say for it. Its sheer size makes it corporately successful in the extreme—angelic to a fare-thee-well. Its consumerism is flagrant. It sells what the market demands: religion, not Gospel; goods and services, not confrontation; life enhancement, not redeeming death. Besides, it's far too close to being the entertainment industry at prayer. It provides prime-time nursery care (complete with big-screen TV messages to summon the parents of intractable children), gymnasiums for "Christian aerobics," mini-dramas and sitcoms during services, inhouse bookstores and T-shirt marts ("the church-front store"), feelgood songs with sticky lyrics and marshmallow melodies—and, above all, the consolations of soda-pop theology. In short, it's WalMart from start to finish: it stocks only what sells and doesn't give shelf-room to what doesn't. But size and numbers guarantee nothing except the lowest common denominator of everything. Remember television? When there were just three networks, NBC had a symphony orchestra and CBS had Captain Kangaroo—and even then we called it a wasteland. Now we have fifty-odd channels, and Melrose Place is all over the place. So what do you think we're going to have when there are five hundred channels? Quality programming? Don't hold your breath. You haven't seen from wasteland yet. 
<br />
<br /> But the last and saddest thing about the mega-church is the rest of the churches' rush to imitate it—and their almost universal unhappiness at not being able to. It may be the Home Shopping Network on its knees, but it's not the church. It may cater to a clientele large enough to make the mainline churches green with envy; but if you've got a good little restaurant, why should you waste your time being jealous of the fast-food chains? The mega-church isn't catholic, it's just big; it's no model for an outfit with a God who thinks small is the cat's meow—and who has regularly given flat tires to every stretch limo the church has historically tried to drive. So thank you very much, Mr. Dealer, but no thanks. Megachurch? No sale. 
<br />
<br />
