---
date: '2001-09-18T22:13:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

>>Modernity killed mystery and we must rediscover it or we too will perish as a witness to our culture. 
<br />
<br />INDEED!
<br />
<br />So what I'm really interested in, though, is the practicality of these paradigms about God to our real lives. How do we love if we think God is judging us? Can we love only to the extent that we feel God loves us? I don't FEEL God's love towards me, but I KNOW God's love towards me, through the journey that He is creating for me to experience. But what do I do when pain and suffering and loss and failure and embarrassment are part of that journey? It's real easy for me to talk the talk when I'm having a good minute/hour/day/week/month/year, but when things are bad for ME, am I going to look for areas I need to repent in? No. I'm going to suffer the concequences. God doesn't get my attention by crashing a plane with my lover in it into the WTC. NO WAY! He got my attention once 2000 years ago, He gets my attention every day through every thing. He doesn't need to kill 5000 people to get mine or anybody's attention. He doesn't have to shout. We have to listen.
<br />
<br />I once heard a christian comic tell a story about a really bad car accident he had when the driver fell asleep at the wheel. He said he prayed "WHY did this happen LORD?????" And God said, "Because he fell asleep at the wheel." Yes it's armenian, but how else can you frame these things? If the Lord caused it, then it has to be for our good, and there are just certain things in this world that are not for our good!!!! To read that verse any other way means you think God causes EVERYTHING. You'd have to prove that one to me another way.
<br />
<br />Ok I don't think I stayed on topic but that's ok, dern it! :)
<br />
<br />-Daniel
