---
date: '2001-10-02T19:53:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Hey is anyone still out there?  I have been swamped with life so have not benn able to post anything.  So whats up with y'all?  I have been writing feverishly the ideas won't stop coming, help me i'm drowning.  Here is soemthing i did a few days ago let me know what you think.  I have been thinking about how we won't embrace mystery as a church and how much we miss because of that.
<br />
<br />Rediscovering a God of Mystery
<br />
<br />While attending a study on Revelation my wife was confused by a comment made by the leader.  As part of a discussion about Jesus Christ the comment was made that not all aspects of God were present in the embodied Jesus.  As my wife and I discussed the implications of that simple comment I was reminded of our never-ending quest to explain away mystery.  The fact that Jesus Christ was both a person and God at the same time is something we can’t explain.  Colossians 1:19-20 states, “For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, and through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross.”  How did all God’s fullness dwell within a person?  Can we ever understand something so amazing?  Do we need to understand to make our faith complete?  
<br />
<br />Our world wants to explain and rationalize everything and we have become accustomed to knowing how to do just that.  From an early age we are programmed to value knowledge and logic.  We stress the importance of being able to create and design theories, philosophies and doctrines that celebrate the scientific and orderly explication of the creation that surrounds us.  We need scientific theories to ease the tension in our minds.  A tension that is caused by the very nature of what we are created to be.  When the great I AM saw fit to create our world and place people at its center God created a being that was limited.  The minds that we have been given are not capable of explaining all things. Yet, we have spent most of our energy over the past centuries attempting to explain God, the Bible and creation with rationality and logic.  None of these things can be quantified in the ways we have been trying to do for so long.  The Bible and its collection of stories is meant to inspire and stir our sense of wonder.  Stories like that of the creative love of God in Genesis were never intended to be a scientific theory about how God went about creating our complex world.  
<br />
<br />Many believe that if you read Genesis as something other than a logical and precise treatise on creation you deny God.  However, what if Bernhard W. Anderson in his book, From Creation to New Creation : Old Testament Perspectives is right and Genesis is to be read as a parable. What if that amazing story was written while the Israelites were in exile?  Foreigners in a strange land in need of comfort and understanding about their place in God’s creation.   The power of the story takes on a whole new focus.  God using the eloquence of an inspired authors tells the people chosen to be the nation of God that they are exactly that.  A people, who have been living with a sense of emptiness, subjected to an existence of uneasiness and rootlessness.  The power of the story inspiring a people whom are about to rediscover the essence of their identity.  Amazed by the understanding that the God that created all things has singled out this people to tell the world the story of whom God is and how God is going to complete the work started long ago.  
<br />
<br />A covenant begun with Abraham carried on through the ages and now being redefined for a people whom about to embark on the greatest journey in history.  Imagine being told that you are part of a mystery that was designed to reconcile all things to God.  Being taught that the mystery that created the world is about to use you as an integral part of that creating. God who created out of nothing a world, a universe and a people who are part of a continuing expression of creative love is telling you that you are the ones to carry out that mission.  God never ceasing in the desire to bring the message of love and transformation to an unending succession of generations.  Imagine being oppressed, beat down and subjected to an ever present evil and then hearing that you the ones your world says are nothing are God’s chosen people.  Dispersed and disconnected yet loved and chosen for a holy and essential journey that will bring all people under the fullness of God.  
<br />
<br />The power of the story has been ignited by the surroundings of those who are hearing it for the first time.  In a world where the written word is absent for most people the power of this story takes on a life that begins a rebirth of a nation.  A nation that was destroyed because they had forgotten the very essence of their creation.  God, the ever-present power is telling these people who have ignored and abandoned their identity that he has never forgotten who they are.  Imagine the sense of wonder that overtakes the minds, hearts and souls of the Israelites.  Believing and living as if you have been discarded and then understanding that that was never true.  The mystery of why God has done this would be unimaginable.   It would make no sense upon the first hearing, yet as the story and its power began to inhabit the souls of the people their view of themselves and their world change.  
<br />
<br />The slow and sometimes painful process of changing the image you have created to protect yourself from a world that denies you any dignity beginning in the telling of a story.  Starting to make the connection with the history that you have known since childhood, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, Moses, Joshua, David, Solomon, Rehobaom, Asa, Omri, Josiah and a thread of success and failure that has followed you since the beginning.  Understanding that God is doing something that only God could do, yet using you a small and unworthy creature to do it.  How could you help but be overwhelmed by the mystery of what God is doing?  How could you explain it in rational and logical terms?  	
<br />
<br />Yet, that is exactly what the church has been doing since the cross.  We have lost our connection with the mystery that is the essence of God.  Succumbing to our need to explain all things in terms that can be quantified and rationalized, but in the end destroying our own heritage.  As we stand staring into a whirlwind that is our world we must rediscover the mystery of God.  We must read stories like the ones in Genesis as parables.  We must once again embrace a God that we can’t and will not explain.  In our experiment to control an uncontrollable creation we have destroyed the very thing we need to survive.  Without a desire to revel and celebrate the mystery of God we have lost our connection with the witness and testimony of all those who have come before us.  Mystery is essential to a faith that connects with the divine.  As we attempt to construct an expression of faith we must do all we can to regain the desire to accept the unexplainable and in that accepting begin to hear the voices from our past.  Those voices are screaming from every crevice of creation that God can not be explained.  As we journey forward to the completion of God’s unending creative genius, mystery must be something we embrace with passion and tenacity. As the psalmist cries out, “Our God is in the heavens; he does whatever he pleases,” we must stop explaining away the mystery that is the essence of God.  By embracing the mystery that is God we will rediscover who we really are in a world that would have us believe a different story.  Our story is one of reveling and celebrating the things we can’t explain.  People who do not know God will begin to see our embrace of mystery as something that they want to be a part.  Rational and logical explanations of God litter the past centuries what the church needs to do is articulate an understanding and acceptance of mystery that intrigues a world that denies that very mystery.  Once we see God the way the Israelites in exile did we will begin to reach our world and God’s essence and power will transform all things.
<br />
<br />Thinking about submitting ot next wave.
<br />
<br />Blessings
<br />John
<br />
<br />
<br />
