---
date: '2001-09-19T12:55:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Daniel,
<br />
<br />Why do you think you don't feel God's love toward you?  Everytime you hold your wife is an expression of God's love.  We were created to be that kind of creature.  We have been created to love and when we do that with/to each other IMO we feel God's love.  Your comment about Feeling and knowing speaks to the issue of mystery though.  We have been taught not to feel.  Feeling is dangerous because feeling is in the realm of the Holy Spirit and we all know how the church avoids the Spirit, well at least the evangelical branch.  Feeling and knowing are things that we must stop separating.  That was the crime of modernity.  Modernity built a wall that created a dichotomy between feeling and knowing.  I once stood looking at the Iron Curtain in rural Germany.  As I stared at that never ending monument to hate and control I see now that that was what modernity did to the tie between feeling and knowing.  That is why we are incapable of intimacy that may be why the attacks of last week make us all scared.  We can't answer the need for a comprehensive response to the pain and doubt that filled us last week because we have to either think it through or feel it through.  I think the discussion on faithmaps is evidence to that.  We wanted to intellectualize the discussion; there were few expressions of heart/feeling.  To become fluent in the language of mystery we need to start with a realization that feeling and knowing must be done together.  Feeling without knowing results in hate or panic, knowing without feeling results in hate or panic.  We need to balance the two.  With all the research that points to the interconnectedness of our universe why do we still insist on speaking a language that denies the truth of who we are created to be?  This relationship between feeling and knowing is essential to our unlocking our need to revell in the mystery of God.  Being comfortable with the uncertainity is how we are to be.  Not comfortable in the sense that we begin ot take it for granted but comfortable in knowing that that is what God's creatures are to be about.  Well, so much for your discussion topic, but isn't that the point of a non-linear discussion?
<br />
<br />Blessings
<br />John
<br />
