---
date: '2001-11-23T16:45:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

I'll keep this as anon as possible, but something about this rubs me weird. Please clue me in if I'm totally off base here. But my comment from post prior about shit came from reading this kind of thing. Because my experience with spirituality in London has been the highlight of my journey so far. And it doesn't matter, in fact it's better, that there aren't so many goups or people doing it. It's intensity is actually better for it. Anyway:
<br />
<br />"On Saturday I arrived in London. Here I will be for just over a
<br />week. The research we do consists of doing interviews, visiting churches,
<br />meeting pastors, praying and collecting all sorts of data: pictures,
<br />magazines, quotes, etc.
<br />            "London has 7.1 million people. Less than 5% attends church on
<br />Sunday. Of the people in ages 20 - 35, even fewer attend church. Yet this
<br />group cites loneliness and relational difficulties as its main problem.
<br />
<br />            "It's not that we don't see any great churches in London. Last
<br />Sunday I visit Ichthus City Gates, which meets in the London Comedy club.
<br />Where artists of all kinds poke fun at everything they know (God and the
<br />church frequently being the but of the jokes, of course), around 150 young
<br />people worship God and seek him on Sunday morning. A happening place indeed
<br />(see pictures).
<br />            "So London has some really good churches that reach out. Problem
<br />is, there are so few of them! They are hardly scratching the surface! We
<br />could use, not just one, but a thousand more churches like City Gates! Which
<br />is why we think London is a good location to plant a church! And then
<br />another one. And another one. And…
<br />
<br />            "IMPACT
<br />            "{our} vision is to contribute toward making an impact for Christ
<br />in Europe. We do this through leadership development, and church planting.
<br />Our desire is to see a movement of new churches spread out over Europe,
<br />impacting the continent in every way. To this end we are endeavoring to
<br />plant some 50 churches by the year 2010.
<br />            "{we} have an active and significant role in this, and we
<br />appreciate your prayer and support for this!"
<br />
