---
date: '2001-09-20T18:54:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Return questions for Daniel... 
<br />
<br />1) Just because the world was not formerly interested in global peace, does that mean it is not a lofty or godly end to seek? 
<br />
<br />2) You tried to understand Greg's point of view. We have not tried to understand theirs. We have never once brought them to the table, though we demand Israel & Palestine to meet at Camp David, and they suffer from THOUSANDS OF YEARS of similar acts. After only a hundred years (and that's being liberal) of enmity with those like Bin Laden, shouldn't we hold the same ruler to ourselves?
<br />
<br />3) Are we not as guilty of atrocities as they? We have killed innocent people ourselves. Read today's New York Times editorial by Niall Ferguson... most of the money for IRA action comes from the U.S., and many of their actions are completely dispicable, and yet nobody comes to bomb the U.S. to make us pay up. 
<br />
<br />4) This point of view, I believe, has tried to get us to understand their point of view in many ways, and we have ignored it. The U.S. refused to even attend the latest international racism conference because the legislation was supposedly to anti-Israel... it exposed too many of their atrocities on Palestine. We only want to see one side of this battle. I, too, have entered the Palestinian section of Israel, and ate in the home of a Palestinian man when I took a class there. He told us of what it was like to have lived there the last 50 years, to have your homeland (after all, they had been there hundreds of years as well) stripped from you, to have weapons handed over to the Israelis from the U.S. as they ignored the new homeless Palestinians. To pay taxes three times the rate of Jews simply b/c of your ascent, and thus not be able to even buy land in the place you have lived your entire life. There is guilt on both sides. I am pro-Israel, but I am also pro-Palestinian. Both deserve to be heard, both have been wronged, both have been the victim and the bully. But America as a whole is only pro-Israel, and has consistently ignored the Palestinian plight, in news coverage, etc. I do not blame them for their hate. We have asked for it... we pitted them the enemy first, and refused to let their position change. They may have given up on getting us to see their point of view through civilized means, b/c those don't work. I do not condone that, but I understand it. 
<br />
<br />The only people I have ever argued violently and profusely with are my parents, and I know that it is because I knew that no "civilized" means would get their attention. I would do whatever it took to get their attention, which meant loud, angry, hateful, screaming arguments... arguments I'm not proud of, but felt cornered into. I believe they, too, are cornered. 
<br />
<br />5) "In other words, there is definately light and darkness in this world, and only those in light can communicate differing views and actual try to achieve understanding. Those in darkness must be dealt with differently, be it as simple as not interfacing with them anymore, in our micro-scale experience, or with more extreme measures (whatever that means) on this macro-scale injustice."
<br />
<br />Can you truly communicate light by operating within darkness? I can't think of a single example where I see that in the New Testament. And have not we violated the same human contract on numerous occasion without due reason, and suffer no punishment for the acts?
<br />
<br />6)  "I just don't think the terrorists or the people that support them care about being understood or care about understanding any more than the war hawks in this country care about it. They are war hawks too." Exactly my point! We have become the monster so the monster will not break us... not a way to gain peace, in my opinion. 
<br />
<br />As I stated in my revised version, talking may do us no good, but isn't that at the very least where we should start? Do you run full force into war without first trying every other avenue, even if you are unsure if it will dead end? I cannot do that with a clear conscience... cannot have my boyfriend (or me- equality for women, right?) drafted to serve in a 10-year war when I know that every other civilized avenue was not FIRST tried... cannot see thousands more die when the simplest (though hardest) solution was never sought.... 
<br />
<br />R
<br />
