---
date: '2001-09-29T17:26:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

from an online friend, Chris Criminger:
<br />
<br />> >>>>
<br />> Hi Everyone,
<br />> I know for some of us that relating our faith to culture and even 
<br />> dealing
<br />> with postmodernity cuts specifically across the issue of war and 
<br />> violence
<br />> in a relevant way.  I also know for others this is just one more
<br />> uncomfortable, controversial, and debated issue by Christians and 
<br />> the
<br />> church.  It certainly can be offensive when someone else's viewpoint 
<br />> or
<br />> understanding of scripture not only radically differs from your own 
<br />> but
<br />> calls your views into question and ethically judges it as well.  I 
<br />> am one
<br />> that thinks the time is ripe for a good discussion on these issues 
<br />> some
<br />> of us deem important (while I know others are either not as 
<br />> concerned or
<br />> don't like the more vigorous disagreements that can occur in 
<br />> discussions
<br />> on topics like this).  
<br />> 
<br />> The scriptures speaks about offenses and how we should respond to 
<br />> them. 
<br />> It also even describes the gospel and Jesus discipleship ethics or
<br />> teachings as bringing offense to others (so there is never getting
<br />> totally around this issue of offense).  I do think discussing these
<br />> sometimes painful issues is important and yes, they will cause 
<br />> offense
<br />> for some in the discussion.  I also believe we all need to be leery 
<br />> of
<br />> speaking in ways that are offensive rather than just our beliefs or
<br />> positions we hold bring offense and discomfort to others.  All of us 
<br />> I
<br />> hope can speak about issues in such a way that "how" we say things 
<br />> will
<br />> not be offensive (even if our ideas may cause offense to others who
<br />> disagree).  Some have already said that the pacifist issue causes 
<br />> offense
<br />> to those who think killing is justified in certain situations.  All 
<br />> I can
<br />> say is that we all hold belief's that will offend others that 
<br />> challenge
<br />> their ethical views (unless some are willing to suggest that 
<br />> prochoice
<br />> Christians or progay marriage Christians [or put in some other 
<br />> ethically
<br />> debated issue] can not be ethically deemed wrong or evil ) and thus 
<br />> we
<br />> consistently do not judge or directly challenge the morality of 
<br />> others
<br />> who view things differently.
<br />> 
<br />> I am a Christian who views our rationales for violence and wars as
<br />> contrary to the spirit of Christ and the scriptures (I make no 
<br />> apologies
<br />> for that).  I am one that can neither justify nor logically 
<br />> rationalize
<br />> Jesus discipleship ethics of being peacemakers, living out a 
<br />> nonviolent
<br />> lifestyle, and loving our enemies can somehow be translated into 
<br />> killing,
<br />> bombing, and destroying our enemies but loving them nevertheless.  I 
<br />> am
<br />> one that can not see a whole lot of difference in how the world 
<br />> justifies
<br />> violence and how Christians justify violence.  We sometimes get 
<br />> indignant
<br />> for the violence in the Koran and how some Muslims justify violence 
<br />> but
<br />> don't see our own culpability of doing the very same thing.  I am a
<br />> Christian who thinks that unless the church and a whole lot more
<br />> Christians quit justifying violence (as if when we kill someone who
<br />> invades our property, a policeman kills a criminal, a soldier kills 
<br />> 'the
<br />> enemy") that they don't even need to ask for forgiveness since our
<br />> churches and synagogues and temples have given permission for such
<br />> violence to occur.  Although these may be difficult situations which 
<br />> we
<br />> may feel like we had no other choice to commit violence, no where do 
<br />> I
<br />> see where the church should promote or sponsor these violent acts (I
<br />> can't help but think of those Muslims who support violence and 
<br />> terrorism
<br />> who are wanting Islam to support violence and terrorism).  I believe 
<br />> that
<br />> the principalities and powers of this world want to seduce all 
<br />> religious
<br />> believers to use its tactics of coercion, power, and violence 
<br />> against
<br />> others.  I simply do not believe this is the way of the kingdom of 
<br />> God.
<br />> 
<br />> There are those who want to say, "but the Kingdom of God was for
<br />> sponsoring war in the Old Testament."  We also have in the Old 
<br />> Testament
<br />> divorce on demand by males only; polygamy; slavery; genocide; and 
<br />> even
<br />> incest by literalist interpretations of Genesis.  To suggest that 
<br />> there
<br />> is no "progression" from the Old Testament to the New Testament or 
<br />> that
<br />> pacifists don't wrestle enough with these Old Testament texts misses 
<br />> the
<br />> deeper issue that these problem texts are problem texts for all
<br />> believers.  How people approach these texts is secondary to the fact 
<br />> that
<br />> very few Christians would suggest that these ethical values have any
<br />> place for today (even if they were once legitimated in the past in 
<br />> some
<br />> sense).
<br />> 
<br />> I am reminded by Phil Yancey's remarks in his new book, "Soul 
<br />> Survivor"
<br />> (Doubleday, 2001).  As he was talking to a young Hindu follower 
<br />> about
<br />> Gandhi, the young man said, "American Christianity has never 
<br />> produced a
<br />> saint along the lines of a Gandhi.  All the Christian leaders are so
<br />> different from Gandhi. You seem to imply that if a Gandhi rose up in 
<br />> the
<br />> American Church today, he would not be taken seriously, would 
<br />> perhaps be
<br />> laughs at and rejected.  And yet those same Christians say they 
<br />> worship
<br />> Jesus Christ.  Why don't they reject him?  He lived a simple life,
<br />> preached love and nonviolence, refused to compromise with the powers 
<br />> of
<br />> the world.  He called on his followers to 'take up a cross and bear 
<br />> the
<br />> sufferings of the world.  Why don't American Christians reject him?" 
<br />> 
<br />> Yancey replied, "It was a good question.  One I still cannot answer"
<br />> (p.176).
<br />> 
<br />> Grace and Peace  -  Chris Criminger
<br />> 
<br />> "Stoning prophets and erecting churches to the memory afterwards has 
<br />> been
<br />> the way of the world through the ages.  Today we worship Christ, but 
<br />> the
<br />> Christ in the flesh we crucified"  -  Mahatma Gandhi
<br />> <<<<
<br />
