---
date: '2001-10-16T19:20:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Daniel and all,
<br />
<br />I wrote this after your comments about using story to convey my point about mystery, let me know what you think.
<br />
<br />John
<br />
<br />Josef grew up surrounded by beauty and plenty.  Yet there was something that seemed odd about this place.  Why did he and his family wear different clothes than the other people in his neighborhood?  Why did they speak a different language in their house than on the street?  Why did they always have to pray to an unknown God to change things?  There was nothing about Josef’s life that seemed to fit.  Wherever he went he felt uncomfortable.  Many times people had spit on him and called him horrible names.  His father, a gravedigger came home tired and angry everyday.  What was wrong with this place?  Why didn’t Josef fit in?  He tried to be liked by the kids in school but they always made fun of his clothes or the way he said certain words.  He was beginning to hate his life, his family, himself.  Every week in religion class he listened to stories about how great his people used to be.  But these stories were myths for him; there was nothing in his life that connected to them.  Yet, when he listened there was something deep inside that stirred?  This sensation was quickly quenched as he walked home after classes.  
<br />The stories he had listened to since he was young were beginning to fade.  He had no way to make sense of them.  The world of these stories could not be real because if it was why was his life so horrible.  The stories gave Josef a sense of emptiness.  If the God his father always spoke about was so strong and so powerful why was his father and family looked down upon by everyone else around them.  Who was Josef and where did he come from?  Nothing in any of these stories made any sense of the world he lived in.  Where was this land of milk and honey?  Where were the armies that once roamed the hills destroying every enemy they faced?  Then one day Josef heard a new story.  This story began with God creating a world out of nothing.  Josef had never imagined God was that powerful.  The laws and regulations he followed everyday had taught him that God was only in need of obedient behavior, nothing more nothing less.  How could this God who demanded so much and did so little be the same God who created everything?  Josef strained to hear the story but its incongruity confused him.  
<br />God created the heavens and the earth and people and plants and animals and everything.  This was obviously a different God than Josef and his family followed. He asked a question if this was the God of the king.  His teacher looked down at him over his glasses with a soft smile and said no, this was the same God that they had talked about yesterday.  This was only a new story his teacher had written the night before.  He was using the class as a test to see if it made any sense.    The mystery of how God could do all these things overwhelmed Josef.  The stories he was used to hearing all made sense they were logical and simple this one was confusing and uneasy to hear.  Josef’s question had opened the gates; from every mouth came a word of doubt.  This was the king’s God it had to be because the king was the only one strong enough to have such a powerful God.  If Josef’s God was this powerful wouldn’t he be better off?  The teacher quickly quieted the class and returned to a familiar story.  
<br />As Josef walked home there was something different in the world that surrounded him.  Things did not look so dark and forbidding, but why, he couldn’t figure it out.  Through dinner and into bedtime the questions swirled in his head.  If this God, his God, created all things from nothing why couldn’t he deliver Josef from his life of drudgery and pain?  The next morning he ask his mother about this God.  His questions seemed to make her nervous and she insisted he stop talking that way.  She wanted to know where he had heard such a story.  Josef told her it was the religious teacher that had told him about this God.  His mother quickly retrieved Josef’s father.  He ask Josef about the story again and angrily slammed his fist on the table.  He told Josef he was not to go back to the class again and that he would speak to the other men in the neighborhood about this teacher.  Josef got scared that he was in trouble, had he said something that was bad?  As Josef walked home from school he saw a crowd gathered in the square and a man on the ground.  His clothes were covered in blood and his body was twitching.  As Josef got closer he realized it was his teacher, he turned and ran in fear.  Why had the men in the village done this to this harmless old man?  
<br />For days Josef sat in quiet fear, not daring to ask his parents why that terrible thing had happened. After a week he finally ask his father at dinner about the teacher.  His father quickly answered that the teacher was dead, guilty of lies against God.  His father told Josef, people like the teacher try to stir the minds of the young people to rebel against their parents.  The rebellion would eventually result in the entire community being punished by the king and his god.  Too many questions from them about why things weren’t different were answered with the king’s violence.  Josef learned quickly not to ask questions, look what it had done for the teacher.  Josef fell into a routine again, school, work, sleep.  
<br />The years past quickly and Josef found himself at the point of making a decision about a career.  His mother had always told him that he should teach religion at the synagogue.  His father wanted him to be a cabinetmaker; a good solid living could be had through such a career.  Josef decided to become a teacher.  He left home and attended a training institute and eventually returned home to become the village’s teacher of religion.  After his teacher had been killed fewer children had been attending the religious school.  It was Josef’s plan to rebuild the school in hopes of generating more income for himself and his new wife.  Through all his training Josef had remembered the story his old teacher had told on that fateful day.  The story had stirred something inside Josef that he could not fully suppress.  Was that story the reason he had become a teacher?  
<br />The day before he was to begin in his new post Josef visited the small room behind the synagogue where he would be teaching in the morning.  Somehow he had managed to add three students to the four that had already enrolled.  As he rummaged through the cabinets a scroll fell from above.  It was covered with years of dust and made Josef sneeze for several minutes; dust has always been a problem for him.  As he removed to string that encircled the scroll he began to see the beautiful characters his old teacher used to make with his writing.  The first word brought Josef to his knees.  The story in the scroll was the very story that had caused his teacher to be stoned. Fear seized Josef, yet something deep inside him overcame the fear and he began to read.  As he read the story of how God had created all things he was overcome with a joy that he could not contain and he danced around the tiny room laughing.  
<br />Now many years later, wiser and more intelligent the story made perfect sense.  It was a powerful message for him and his people.  If their God created all things they no longer needed to live in subjugation.   But why had his teacher been killed for telling this story?  As Josef rolled up the scroll and retied the string he was consumed with a million urges.  He wanted to run in the streets and tell everyone what he had discovered.  But then the image of the old man lying in a bloodied heap hit him.  What was it that created such fear in his father and others to cause them to kill this gentle old man?  The answer was then clear.  If this story was true and God was all-powerful, more powerful that any god the king and his sorcerers could muster it meant that his people were a threat to the stable society that the king had built.  Josef’s people who had so long lived without hope could not understand that this story was meant for them.  It was a call to them from their God that they were never left alone.  
<br />From the beginning of time God had followed, led and loved them.  They had let their own fear and doubt destroy their joy and that was the reason they lived the lives they did.  That was why they had killed the teacher years before.  This story was a cry in their wilderness, a cry calling them to reclaim their roots.  What they had seen as dangerous God meant for good.  They were unable to see the power and mystery that the story held.  Too many years of living calculated controlled lives had deadened their senses to understand anything mysterious.  God had become a comfortable proposition that fit into their hard and shallow lives.  God did not ask much from Josef’s people did not expect much in return.  
<br />But how would Josef show his aging father and the other patriarchs that this story is intended to restore their people to their rightful place.  Years of living under the thumb of an oppressive king had taught Josef and his people that they were not to question anything.  And here was God telling Josef and his people that there are a called out group, a chosen seed that God would once again enable and empower.  Josef wanted to scream the message he had learned from the rooftops but something held him back.  As he contemplated what to do it became clear.  He would secretly share the story with friends and trusted associates until there joy and desire to claim their heritage would grow into a force the village and its people could not ignore.  Josef did succeed in his task and his people through the help of this story reclaimed their place in history.  
<br />Yet as I tell this story we are like the men who stoned the old teacher.  We live in fear of changing; comfortable with the world God has “given” us.  But the truth is that God is telling new stories and some of us are listening seeking to find a way to embrace the mystery that change Josef’s world.  That same spirit of embrace must prevail in our world or we are destined to stone all our old teachers and live lives filled with fear and doubt.  God wants us to rediscover who we are and what we were meant to be and embracing mystery is an essential part of that journey.
<br />
