---
date: '2001-10-12T22:19:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

> Subject: Re: Soularize
<br />> The
<br />> website is unspeakably cool
<br />
<br />This is arguable. Which leads me to ask: I recently characterized (a limited
<br />action, indeed, but still...) TheOoze.com as "moderns trying to look cool"
<br />and was (understandably) dissagreed with. I find it odd (in a great way)
<br />that on this list, there are people who plain dissagree with the
<br />postmodern-or-whatever-u-call-it approach to christian faith, but still
<br />openly engage in conversations from a place of mutual respect (something in
<br />short supply in christendom). The boards on theooze have frequently been
<br />opportunities for sarcasm and disrespect from the
<br />modern-or-whatever-u-call-it camp (a personal experience of mine, can you
<br />tell?). I connected that to the other things that gave me funny feelings on
<br />the site: the trying-too-hard graphics, pictures of young people
<br />"worshipping," the daily "bible reading" and "devotions" on the home page
<br />(is the Bible still just uncontexted, random verses requiring discipline
<br />and/or a chore assignment every day?). I really *do* appreciate the frequent
<br />updates of *good* articles, but rarely do I manage to notice them because
<br />the worshipping guy on the homepage with bleached hair, a gotee, sunglasses,
<br />and (apparently) a WWJD bracelet makes me want to hurl. Sorry if that person
<br />is in earshot-I'm not busting on your personal style, but rather their
<br />choice of creating an icon out of you-it is just SO stereotypical of the
<br />supposed "postmodern Christian" culture, i.e. just like any other christian
<br />subcultural phenom-10 years behind the real world. And I don't mean MTV.
<br />
<br />Please rant back. I just re-read my rant and I just want to say I'm really
<br />not judging; hope it doesn't sound too harsh but I'm not going to re-write
<br />it; just asking "what the?" Is theooze really for me, or is it for my dad to
<br />try and understand me (ala L. Sweet et. al.)?
<br />
<br />Daniel
<br />danielsjourney.com
<br />
