---
date: '2001-09-24T17:16:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Daniel,
<br />
<br />Art, mystery, worship have all been destroyed by modernity to some extent.  Art has become "pop" for many, just another commodity.  Your talk about exploring worship or connecting to the transedent is exciting.  I think about the time, money and passion that was put into the work of artist in past ages.  The murals on/in buildings, the paintings, the scuplture that dripped with theological meaning.  How Christ or any other imge was placed or used carried great weight for the artist and the viewers of the finished work.  We have been dulled to the point that nothing seems beautiful.  Our senses know only mediocrity.  When I look at the icons Eastern Orthodoxy uses in their worship at times I am blown away.  But then I am smacked in the face with my world, where beauty is fleeting.  I believe we are entering into the age of the Holy Spirit.  The way we know the HS is through symbol, the langauge of symbol will become essential to the church as we try to express faith in the future.  I am not speaking of literal symbols like the cross, but subtle ones.  Ones like how you embrace a friend, can speak volumes about how you value them.  Your quest to find meaning in things that you create or find is wonderful.  We need to have our souls awakened to the beauty that permeates everything that surrounds us.  I mentioned once about expereinceing God in traffic.  What I meant was that a thing that we have created, ie rush hour, can be a place where we encounter the divine if we allow ourselves to let it happen.  There sitting in traffic surrounded by people I don't know I am overcome with the beuaty of our diverse world.  In a situation totally out of my control I am struck with the immensity of God and the fraility of me.  Passing a wreck the twisted metal and shattered plastic speak to the unlimited value of life and our utter failure in trying to control it.  So keep going brother and always remember everywhere you go God has been there before, during and after you.  The landscape of SFLA with its bleached out patina is filled with beauty and meaning.  The church has accepted the world the way it is and what we need to be doing is training explorers that are fearless in the pursuit of meaning, beauty, etc.  It is like we are all standing on the edge of a cliff and across that chasm there are a few people running around searching for something and we have no idea how they got over there, maybe they have been there all the time and we have been unable or unwilling to see them. Some of us know we need to be on the other side, but are afraid to ask the ones already there for help.  Some of us are jumping across and not making it overcome with the desire to be in front others are constructing walls to block our view of the other side.  Then some of us are looking over with loging and a desire to take others across with us to build a new world.  How do we build a bridge that crosses that void without the help of the ones already there and also with those who wish to stay behind.  I want to be part of those who build the bridge and the most rewarding part of the task is the building not what we discover when we get across.  Although the world over there will amaze us in its beauty and complexity and simplicity.  We need to build now or we will lose our passion and desire and become once again like the church in the 20th century, afraid of what is coming and determined to build a world that denies reality.  "seeking :: stories :: beauty :: meaning" is a way you and others can invite people to walk accross the bridge we are building together.
<br />
<br />John
