---
date: '2001-10-12T22:18:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

All,
<br />
<br />I'm glad some of you appreciated the humor of my characterization of the iconic ooze dude. 
<br />
<br />John O'K, you're right, I was judging; but I wasn't slapping the hand that's reaching for the cookie jar--I'm trying to move the cookie jar closer for them, I just don't know which way to scooch it! Sweet's a very, very smart man; I just know that I am not his audience. (Also I tried to also point out the things i like about ooze--the content; and hopefully it is obvious that the mean message board dudes thing is not under the control of those who run the site.) {Also-also, I like "hyper-modern with candles;" but I never said "hyper" or "modern" so don't jump to conclusions! :^)}
<br />
<br />Also I obviously did not go to Soularize so I can't comment on it. I would've gone if not for $. Well, I would've thought about it at least.
<br />
<br />Kyle, how's UBC doin' these days?
<br />
<br />Kit, it's a really long story about me and the Episc church. I stopped going as soon as my parents stopped expecting/forcing me to go. When I went to college I became a super-right charis-fundie jerk. I was reformed 4 years ago and currently head up the FA chapter in my area. There is currently no church that I could attend with joy ('tho the next time I go to a 'service' will probly be Episc w/ the folks next time we're together). I do my own things and invite my friends or go to 'real world' spiritual events like concerts and art galleries. But, I mostly left the Episc church because it was my parent's church, you know? When you break it down, people go to church for entertainment and/or tradition and/or social connectedness (and oh yeah, spiritual stuff on occasion, too). I was basically the only young person at that church and wasn't mature enough to create my own meanings from the structure that was there. 10 years later I might have a different approach. I think the Episc church has possibly the greatest potential of all existing church institutions. Many vibrant young communities have grown out of Anglican traditions in the UK (oft mentioned on this list Dave Tomlinson is an Anglican priest now; the vaux community is also out of an Anglican church {i think}). IMHO, the main thing with a litergical tradition is that there is so much meaning behind the acts of worship that is never expressed or communicated. Instead of being a framework for interface with God that one can approach and use from within their own context, it was for me a rote. Instead of being a gardener, I was just the hired plowman. Not only could I not bring my own context as a young person to it, there was no context for me to place around it.
<br />
<br />I'm going to mirror this post on www.hopeagainsthope.com, where you can catch up on all my opinions, however I really suggest careful contexting because alot of it is so old...
<br />
<br />
