---
date: '2001-11-23T16:41:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Had an idea for the "next" "installation" (for lack of a better word). Funny how I'm never explicitly thinking of these things but they just come.
<br />
<br />aside: I'm so sick of alt. worship already. You'll see: it'll be the next big thing in Christendom and swallowed whole, digested, and turned into shit by the church-at-large.
<br />
<br />At Vaux they did this thing (actually I thought of this then, but just now I heard Miriam talking to D about the movie "Babette's Feast" and it made me think of it again) where they showed the movie, which is based on a little story, while somebody told the story to us. It was like getting two stories at once, but really they were the same story.
<br />
<br />Also there's that "layered narrative" concept....
<br />
<br />Also I'm reading that book "Miss Wyoming" where each chapter is from a different time in one of the 2 characters' lives. There's about 6 threads, so about every 6 chapters you're picking up linearly from about 6 chapters ago. Anyway, there's one or two threads that I find more interesting that others, so every time I get to one of those chapters it's really exciting.
<br />
<br />Which gave birth to my third will-I-ever-actually-write-one book idea, which I told S about last weekend, which is to write a bunch of loosely knit self-contained short stories and compile them in some random way. Sort of just like Miss Wyoming but each chapter totally self contained and the interconnectedness not so clear until maybe you read the last chapter. Just nonlinear story on a few growth hormones.
<br />
<br />So after all that background, my idea is....to do a layered narrative night. Have like 10 stories going on at once, and people experience them all simulateously, except they will only be able to process a few at a time, and will be naturally drawn to only one or two.
<br />
<br />The other thing that made me think of this was the night I was at hate mail reading my book there, and I had two conversations going on either side of me, so I was following three stories at once. It was pretty cul. I wrote about it on the hate mail weblog. http://hatemail.blogspot.com (November 17, 2001)
<br />
<br />So the question is how do you pull this off?
<br />
<br />Couple movies. That's easy. Books would be hard because it's an active thing; maybe if everyone carried around one book and read it during. Live theater would be awesome, but then somebody(s) would have to do it, and they might not experience the event then (not to mention we only have about 7 people interested in this type of thing anyway). Or, like Calvin's thingie, everyone could be part of the theater....
<br />
<br />So I was thinking between Calvin's murder mystery night, ya'll's plans and interest in story, and my thoughts on doing a super smashed-story non-linear night with a couple of common threads, we could come up with something. So bark back yer thoughts. When/how/where?
