---
date: '2001-10-10T15:37:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Hey folks,
<br />
<br />It's Linford here with a quick update for you all. 
<br />
<br />First, Karin sends her thanks for the heartfelt words of encouragement that 
<br />so many of you took time to send regarding her mother's health. They meant 
<br />more than you know. Look for a longer update from Karin as things continue to 
<br />progress. Karin's mother is still trying to regain her speech and the use of 
<br />the right side of her body, following the brain hemmorhage, but she is in 
<br />stable condition, and continues to make tiny improvements. She has been 
<br />transferred to Cincinnati, and it has been a very difficult time, but we 
<br />continue to hope for the best. Immense thanks again for your thoughts and 
<br />prayers. 
<br />
<br />I did do some touring with Cowboy Junkies in September in order to help pay a 
<br />few band bills, but I was home just in time to celebrate wedding anniversary 
<br />numero five. So in spite of a lot of what's been happening, life has had its 
<br />good moments during these blustery October days. Indian summer. Crows 
<br />gathering in the trees.
<br />
<br />We were deeply saddened and of course stunned by the tragic events that 
<br />unfolded in NYC, Washington DC and Pennsylvania on September 11. Like so many 
<br />artists and musicians, we were at a loss for words. We too had to ask 
<br />ourselves, What place does art and music have in times like these? 
<br />
<br />Our hope is that we can somehow participate in tiny redemptive acts in the 
<br />coming months and years, that may (even if in ways embarrassingly small) help 
<br />to heal this broken world of ours. When any of us encounters beauty, we 
<br />subconsciously dream of a more perfect world, the door is flung wide on new 
<br />possibilities that we can't yet imagine, we breathe more deeply and wonder if 
<br />we have more to offer than we know. Although I couldn't imagine making my own 
<br />music for quite some time after September 11, the music of others held me at 
<br />times and was a comfort somehow.
<br />
<br />While our government launches the bombing campaign in Afghanistan, we are 
<br />troubled by many conflicting feelings. My heritage is one of pacificism, but 
<br />it seems presumptuous to wax eloquent about loving one's enemies when I enjoy 
<br />the relative safety and prosperity of a land well-guarded. It is the duty of 
<br />governments, I suppose, to protect themselves and their people. I do believe 
<br />if the men flying those planes on the 11th could have killed 5,000,000 
<br />instead of 5000 they would have done so. It's unsettling to know that there 
<br />are people who would happily eradicate Western Civilization. And yet as we 
<br />start blowing things up in Afghanistan, it is inevitably the poor who will 
<br />suffer, families huddled along the sides of roads, and it just feels so damn 
<br />archaic somehow. With all the intelligence and resources that we have 
<br />available to us, couldn't we help the world invent a different way? And yet 
<br />it seems there are many (even in Washington) who are struggling to see the 
<br />big picture. 
<br />
<br />Well, I'm sure you've all been thinking some of these same things. As usual 
<br />when it comes to things that matter, there are no easy answers. Our thoughts 
<br />and prayers continue to be with the victims and their families.
<br />
<br />Moving on to things Over the Rhine for the time being, again, in spite of 
<br />everything, we are going to go forward with our tour of Europe. We feel it's 
<br />the right thing to do, and we will have the opportunity to introduce our 
<br />music (God willing) to thousands of new people. Hopefully our guardian angels 
<br />will have a relatively uneventful trip apart from a lot of sightseeing and 
<br />some unusually inspired music.
<br />
<br />And finally, I have another update on my book project. We had to cancel about 
<br />30 shows recently to deal with a family crisis, and I was left with a book 
<br />project that I suddenly couldn't pay for. I pulled the plug on plan "A". In 
<br />the meanwhile, I was absolutely delighted and surprised when a small press in 
<br />Kentucky that I have admired from a distance for years, offered to print a 
<br />limited run of my project. Larkspur Press has been making beautiful, 
<br />handmade, letterpress books, and chapbooks for years. I had purchased several 
<br />of their editions of Wendell Berry poems or short stories, and had always 
<br />thrilled to see their commitment to fine bookmaking. I'll be meeting with 
<br />them later this year, and I can't believe my luck, frankly, that they are 
<br />willing to be involved.
<br />
<br />Now the thing is, they are all Luddites at heart down at Larkspur, and they 
<br />warned me that they don't pay attention to deadlines. All they would commit 
<br />to is getting me my book sometime next year! I, for one, am willing to wait, 
<br />and eager to see the result of their efforts, whenever that may be.
<br />
<br />Karin asked me the other night how many had pre-ordered my book during the 
<br />little special we ran back in June. I said, Oh, about 250 people. She said, 
<br />That's definitely enough for an angry mob.
<br />
<br />Well put.
<br />
<br />Here is where we are: This book is going to be limited to a run of 500 
<br />copies. If you pre-ordered one last June, some time next year you will 
<br />receive your signed and numbered Larkspur Press edition. If you would like to 
<br />get your money back because of the delay, just e-mail Stacie at 
<br />otrhine@aol.com, and she will send you a check for $15.00 and take you off 
<br />the list. 
<br />
<br />I'm guessing that, at the end of the day, most people won't mind waiting, so 
<br />let's assume that 250 are spoken for. I would like to give 100 to family and 
<br />friends, so that leaves 150 that are still available. These will sell for $15 
<br />plus $3 shipping, and we will be putting them up on the website catalog soon. 
<br />If you would like to reserve a copy, you can do so while they last. Because 
<br />there are a limited number, I'll go ahead and sign and number these as well.
<br />
<br />(For those that pre-ordered, to buy Grey Ghost Stories and the book 
<br />separately costs $36 with shipping, so you saved $11. We do apologize for the 
<br />change in plans.)
<br />
<br />And last but not least, after an unforeseen two month break, we are thrilled 
<br />to be doing a few intimate shows this wknd. Friday, we're playing at Brady's 
<br />in Kent, Ohio, and Saturday, we're playing in the tiny town of Dalton, Ohio, 
<br />a stone's throw from Kidron, which is more or less in the heart of Amish 
<br />country. You can catch the Amish flea market and cattle auction during the 
<br />day in Kidron, buy a few heifers to feed over the winter, and then hear our 
<br />own unique brand of sorrow and love flowing mingled down that evening in 
<br />Dalton. It's part of a new concept we're working on: weekend getaways with 
<br />Over the Rhine. Wonder of wonders, my parents will be attending this show. 
<br />Anything could happen.
<br />
<br />(Brady's is the sort of warm, glowing establishment that Frodo, Sam, Pippin 
<br />and Merry would have loved after several days of tiresome trekking.)
<br />
<br />Go to overtherhine.com for all the pertinent info. We hope to see you.
<br />
<br />Until then, be brave and free and inspired,
<br />
<br />Linford Detweiler
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />On a side note, for what it's worth, never have we come so close to pulling 
<br />the plug on the Over the Rhine discussion list as when someone named Chris 
<br />Emery, made a flip comment immediately following the acts of terror that was 
<br />utterly beyond the pale of human decency in our opinion, whatever his leg
<br />itimate political concerns may have been. While thousands were scrambling for 
<br />news of family members in the wreckage, and while the Jay Leno's of the world 
<br />had the good sense to shut up for once, Chris opted to use his computer 
<br />keyboard to perpetrate his own unique brand of divisiveness and contempt for 
<br />the feelings of others. I opted not to send my response at the time in a 
<br />hardwon moment of restraint, and was comforted with the impassioned hope that 
<br />he may not really be a fan of our music, rather someone who hangs around on 
<br />the discussion list because he is cynical and lacks options.
<br />In response to those who wrote us directly, those of us associated with Over 
<br />the Rhine were outraged and embarrassed to be associated in some way with his 
<br />comments which we found to be ill-timed and frankly, sickening.
<br />
<br />The discussion list was intended to be a wide open forum for the discussion 
<br />of Over the Rhine's music. It's not moderated, and we may move to a different 
<br />format in coming months. Much of the tone and content of the discussion list 
<br />is not all that relevant to what Over the Rhine is about (according to the 
<br />great majority of our fans), but there have been some great moments, however 
<br />few and far between. The band has always taken a hands off approach with the 
<br />list, but I guess if someone wishes to use that pallette to express 
<br />sentiments that are a blatant effront to the spirit of Over the Rhine and the 
<br />community we've tried to bring together over the years, they'll probably hear 
<br />from us sooner or later. Maybe we've been silent too long. Enough said.
<br />
<br />
