---
date: '2001-10-14T12:07:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

<br />(see bottom of this post to read stirical instant message this note refers to:)
<br />
<br />Howdy,
<br />Just got to say that that was a bunch of crap. I know you don’t write them but I assume you read them.
<br />What is  “His country?”
<br />To whom did we supply arms to that attack his country? Russia? I don’t think so. Iraq and the host of others that surround them are all sold arms by Russia. Now we are supplying arms to anyone willing to fight the terrorists. I whole heartedly support that. I do not support killing innocent children or “wiping Them off the face of the earth” but what are we to do with a nation of children that has been brainwashed from an early age to hate Americans?
<br />I shudder to think. The amazing thing is, as far as the terrorism is concerned, left and right are united. Sure there are people like the person that wrote that little satire. I pity our nation and the world should we take on that train of thought. 
<br />All I can say is, thank God that George Bush is president. I know that probably sets you off but I can’t even imagine what Al would be doing right now. Under the bed in the Lincoln bedroom no doubt. Just kidding of course but you get my drift. Had the former president spent more time chasing Binny and less time chasing bootie, we might not be in this situation. (ouch!)
<br />I have to ask myself why it takes such a tragic event to bring out the “Best” in all of us. Unfortunately, I have to ask why it also brings out the worst. You may know, Boca Raton is the next city from Delray Beach. I have no doubt that the events of this past week here will be played out across the nation in the coming months. It saddens me. I do not believe that these have anything to do with what happened on the 11th of last month. These scares have been going on all over the country for years. Unfortunately someone has procured the “real” virus for these attacks.
<br />Are we as Americans wrong in trying to help an economically depressed nation to rebuild after a decade of war or to feed their starving children? Should people be sentenced to death for preaching Christianity? This is what the radical Muslims are doing in many countries. I am sure you have read of the way they treat women. What should we do? Become isolationists? Little Bush was accused of this in recent months after visiting and hosting more leaders in the first 6 months of his presidency than Clinton did in his first 3 years.
<br />As a Christian, I was appalled at the comments of Jerry Falwell and the agreement of Pat Robertsen. To say that what happened on September 11th was God’s vengeance upon our nation for supporting Gays and Lesbians and abortion is simply put “Absurd.” They do not represent the true Christian faith in anyway. If that is the “Religious Right” then I am sorry to say, “They are wrong.”
<br />My God is a loving God. He has taught me to hate the sin but love the sinner. It is not up to me to condemn but to forgive. While I am against abortion it is not my right to pass judgment. It is His (Hers) 
<br />I can forgive the acts brought against us but I cannot excuse them. The perpetrators must be either eliminated or brought to justice. Preferably the latter. It will only add more fuel to the fire to indiscriminately kill those that offend not only our nation but the nations of the world. 
<br />As far as Gays and Lesbians go, (no pun intended) that is their freedom. Who am I to discriminate against them? I have had many friends and acquaintances who were Gay or Lesbian. Does God love them any less? I doubt it.
<br />I think our politicians have learned a valuable lesson in taking sides with only our interests in mind but we must always stride to bring peace to the world. Peace, Love and Freedom are the very foundations of any relationship, be it personal or otherwise. Countries that suppress their population should be held accountable. They are not interested in the well-being of their country but of their own self interests.
<br />We are a nation of individuals. All races, faiths, sexual orientation and ethnic backgrounds are welcome. Some say that these freedoms unconstrained. How can freedom be exercised otherwise?
<br />the stuff that goes through my head while i'm driving: 
<br />BinLaden9151: hello 
<br />XprezbushX: who is this 
<br />BinLaden9151: osama 
<br />XprezbushX: thats a funny name 
<br />BinLaden9151: at least its not bush lol 
<br />XprezbushX: shut up 
<br />BinLaden9151: did u get my message 
<br />XprezbushX: whut message 
<br />BinLaden9151: u know, my message 
<br />BinLaden9151: it wuz delivered by airmail 
<br />BinLaden9151: right into ur trade towers 
<br />XprezbushX: shut up that wasnt funny 
<br />BinLaden9151: lol 
<br />XprezbushX: SHUT UP!!!! :X 
<br />BinLaden9151: r u mad 
<br />XprezbushX: yah 
<br />BinLaden9151: why?????? 
<br />XprezbushX: u messed with my country 
<br />BinLaden9151: well now u know how i feel 
<br />XprezbushX: whut do u mean 
<br />BinLaden9151: other countries and forces hurt my people all the time 
<br />XprezbushX: hello!!! whut duz that have 2 do with us 
<br />BinLaden9151: like u give guns and money and missiles and stuff 2 a lot of those people 
<br />XprezbushX: oic 
<br />XprezbushX: but ur terrorists, how can u speak out against violence 
<br />BinLaden9151: jeez u label anybody who goes against injustice a terrorist 
<br />BinLaden9151: i bet if u were picking on my little brother and i punched u youd start screaming TERRORIST! TERRORIST! 
<br />XprezbushX: i never touched ur little brother 
<br />XprezbushX: besides there r other, more civilized ways 2 battle injustice 
<br />BinLaden9151: ur missing the point 
<br />XprezbushX: whutz the point anyway 
<br />BinLaden9151: i love my people like brothers and ur military is all up in our holy land!!! 1 
<br />BinLaden9151: its pissing us off 
<br />XprezbushX: whatever dude 
<br />XprezbushX: is that all 
<br />BinLaden9151: no 
<br />BinLaden9151: another thing is, imperialistic american globalization is a raging torrent thats going to wash away our borders, our cultures and our identities 
<br />XprezbushX: whut do u mean 
<br />BinLaden9151: im afraid that tomorrow im going to wake up and see a mcdonalds next to my mosque 
<br />BinLaden9151: and ur troops will be like, relax yall, just have a happy meal!! 
<br />XprezbushX: so whut r u wearing 
<br />BinLaden9151: ??? 
<br />XprezbushX: sorry wrong window lol 
<br />BinLaden9151: lol 
<br />XprezbushX: ok so whut were u saying 
<br />BinLaden9151: like 
<br />BinLaden9151: basically 
<br />BinLaden9151: a lot of all the jets and tanks and gunships that terrorize us might as well be painted red, white and blue 
<br />XprezbushX: a/s/l 
<br />BinLaden9151: ??? 
<br />XprezbushX: sorry wrong window again 
<br />BinLaden9151: WHY DONT EVER LISTEN TO ME!! 
<br />BinLaden9151: THE ONLY WAY I CAN GET THROUGH TO U IS BY BLOWING SOMETHING UP!! 
<br />XprezbushX: hello r u there 
<br />BinLaden9151: YESS!! 
<br />XprezbushX: u started all this anyway 
<br />BinLaden9151: did not! 
<br />XprezbushX: u did too! 
<br />BinLaden9151: u started it!! 
<br />XprezbushX: lalalala 
<br />XprezbushX: i cant hear u 
<br />BinLaden9151: i will make ur life a living hell 
<br />XprezbushX: haha ur acting like a 13 year old girl who just got her phone taken away 
<br />BinLaden9151: shut up 
<br />BinLaden9151: ur immature 
<br />XprezbushX: no u r 
<br />BinLaden9151: i know u r but what am i 
<br />XprezbushX: LALALALALALALA 
<br />XprezbushX: cant hear u 
<br />BinLaden9151: SHUT UP 
<br />XprezbushX: NO U SHUT UP 
<br />XprezbushX: relax, have a happy meal lol 
<br />BinLaden9151: ARRRGGHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!11 
<br />XprezbushX: i think our blind rage is obscuring solutions--can we set aside our feelings and just talk about this like civilized humans?? 
<br /> 
<br />Previous message was not received by BinLaden9151 because of error: User BinLaden9151 is not available. 
<br /> 
<br />
<br />
