---
date: '2001-09-19T15:41:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Daniel, your comments about feeling and knowing inspired the following. let me know if you agrre with everything I said again, you know its much easier that way.
<br />
<br />Modernity has committed a crime against humanity.  With a measured calculated attack the modern paradigm has destroyed our sense of wonder.  We have become a culture that can’t digest the mysterious.  The Modern agenda sought to control and explain a world that we are just beginning to see defies understanding.   The church with its need to give people formulas and doctrine has been one of the outspoken leaders of this quest.  Modernity has created an image of humanity that denies the creative genius of God.  Modernity spent the majority of its intellectual energy defining things that are not to be understood.  The battle between the Fundamentalists and Liberals that raged in the 20th century exhausted the church’s intellect.  Each camp with its measured manifesto sought to destroy the other.  The prize they sought was a jewel that neither could comprehend.  Each side succumbed to the desire to have its ideas as the norm.  Once its agenda won out the orthodoxy that would follow would create a peaceful and calculated existence.  In the quest to understand we let the rantings of a few form our image of the world and God.  Control, uniformity, logic and rationality were the words we used to describe what the world was to be.  Modernity obliterated our desire to be amazed.  As the discoveries, theories and theology of the 20th century explicated definition and exactness something in us died. Is there any doubt why the modern church has lost its voice.   Then in an instant it all seemed to change.  A tidal overwhelmed the beachhead modernity had so carefully built.  The 20th century is littered with ideas and formulas that are useless.  The postmodern storm has destroyed all the harbors modernity used for safety.  Now the battle must be taken to the internal fortresses years of denial have built.  
<br />	Modernity created a dichotomy between our need to feel and our need to know.  The people God created us to be needs a sense of wonder to survive.  Modernity denied that need at all costs.  People who would not let that spark die were pushed to the fringes of the community.  Modernity above all else could support any dissention.  We lived our lives by the rules this careful and banal leadership created.  Socialism, Capitalism and Communism created a world where a few controlled the thoughts and desires of the many.  The price we paid may never be recovered. To become fluent in the language of mystery we need to start with a realization that feeling and knowing must be done together. The revolution postmodernity has begun has awakened our spirits.  We have been shown how our understanding of the world destroyed many treasures.  However, our sense of mystery is the most devastated.  The link between feeling and knowing is fractured.  When people speak a language of mystery and wonder we need interpreters to understand.  It is not that we have lost our ability to feel and know we have lost the realization that one can’t exist without the other.  I once stood at the Iron Curtain in rural Germany.  That monument to the modern agenda stretched to the horizon.  Guard posts rose like leafless trees along its course.  As I looked at the horror of a world divided I wondered who is controlling whom?  Are we keeping them out or them us, or are they keeping themselves in?  As this image invades my mind today it is a vivid reminder of what modernity did to our sense of wonder. Feeling and knowing separated by a never-ending fence.  The horror of that crime is just beginning to sink in.  For many the discussions postmodernity has brought to the public square are confusing.  They are unable to see the need to connect our myriad of desires and needs.  They speak a language of logic and coldness.  In Acts when Peter healed the lame man the people were filled with wonder and amazement.  The modern world would define the healing in medical terms or with doubt that man ever had any affliction.  It was a sense of awe and wonder that allowed the Israelites to know God intimately.  They did not need an explanation for the world that surrounded them they were still and knew that he was God.  God never intended for us know all things.  As the modern world sought answers to all things God slowly slipped from our grasps. 
<br />Our need to feel and know is part of the beautiful creatures God wants us all to become.  God created in each one of us a need to feel and know.  Feeling without knowing or knowing without feeling creates a lopsided image of how we are. We need to balance the two. With all the research that points to the interconnectedness of our universe why do we still insist on speaking a language that denies the truth of which we are created to be? This relationship between feeling and knowing is essential to our unlocking our need to revel in the mystery of God. This relationship is how we connect to the mystery of God.  Being comfortable with the uncertainty of this mystery is one of the integral foundations for us to have our being. Not comfortable in the sense that we begin to take it for granted but comfortable in knowing that that is what God's creatures are to be about.  Mystery must be celebrated.  Mystery must be valued.  Mystery must become the currency we use to purchase our spiritual health. Modernity killed mystery and we must rediscover it or we too will perish as a witness to our culture.  If mystery is not part of our worldview then we will become a resounding gong or clanging cymbal.  Without mystery we create a symphony that can’t be played.  Without mystery the church as we have constructed it will die.  Without mystery our souls will be polluted with images of a world that God does not know.  We must embrace mystery with passion so we can once again learn the language of God.  As we seek to become fluent in that language we must use our lives as metaphors to mystery.  Unless we grab mystery with all our strength, mind, soul and spirit we will watch God slowly fade from our lives.
<br />
<br />
<br />
