---
date: '2001-09-21T03:06:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Thanks Rebecca for that.
<br />
<br />I think world peace is indeed a lofty and godly end to seek. I was just pointing out the fact that it has never happened. In other words I'm not holding much hope. Despite the name of this venture.
<br />
<br />I think our leaders have tried to understand their POV. Even Clinton tried to work something out before his term ended. I always have a hard time second guessing the leaders of our government, because from what I know of them, they are much more educated on all these issues than I am. I remember U2 being interviewed at the Tibeten freedom concert. The interviewer asked them about their recent visit with Clinton, and whether they discussed Tibet with him. Bono, normally not a man short of words, was noticably just so. When pushed by the interviewer, he said quietly that he realized during their meeting that Clinton knew a whole lot more about the issues than he did and that Clinton did in fact think long and hard about the situation over there. I realized then that if Bono was in awe of Clinton's grasp of world events so much as to have nothing to say to it, then this guy must really have worked hard at his job. The President of the USA is always only going to be a man, but hopefully he will always be an intelligent man of character who chooses even wiser advisers. Despite the media's persistent characterizations of our last few presidents as goofs, I still defer to them with respect. One of the problems I see in trying to understand the Muslim position is that there are so many factions. It would be like going to Falwell to understand us. We all fall under "Christianity" but our views and the way we practice are very different. What if there were Christian terrorists? What if my ideologies were very close to theirs, but I was not involved with a particular terrorist act? Even Arafat called for a cease fire in Israel, and the next day a different faction did a drive by and killed a woman in Bethlehem. It's so damn complicated. Intelligence is key I guess, but always insufficient, and we as citizens are certainly the least informed.
<br />
<br />I've tried to get to the NYTimes' editorials online but haven't been able to. But I'm just about to get up to watch Bush's speach. I might have to retract the last paragraph! :) ...
<br />
<br />Well, no retraction! But I don't have any more time, either. Got to be with M!
