---
date: '2001-12-31T17:46:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Hello everyone and welcome to the new Integration Research website!!!
<br />
<br />I'm hoping this new, simple interface will facilitate your reading and researching better than the old hopegainsthope website.
<br />
<br />Also, as you can see, we're on new webservers, so update your favourites using the link in the upper left.
<br />
<br />Also, integrationresearch.org is not yet a domain name. If anyone wants to buy it FOR me, feel free, but until I feel like it is necessary, I'm not going to buy it myself. All those links to hope against hope out there may still go to the old site, but I'll be sure to get an update on that server to point to this one. Hopeagainsthope has expired with register dot com, though, so it will no longer work, supposedly.
<br />
<br />Also, if the image from the last post doesn't disturb you severely then go away. Now. You're sick. 
<br />
<br />Also, I would love for anyone within reach of these words to send me articles for this site!!!!! Please email me <a href="mailto:dealingwith@yahoo.com">with your ideas</a> and articles. I want anything that is cutting edge about faithful living and thinking!!!! This is supposed to be a site dedicated to the integration of faith and life and all things therein. 
<br />
<br />Also you can still be a contributor to the blog (sort of this site's editors). Just email me for that too.
<br />
<br />Thanks for all hanging in there and I hope you like this new version of this site!
<br />
<br />Love and cheers,
<br />
<br />Daniel
