---
date: '2001-09-20T15:29:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Rebecca,
<br />
<br />I like the essay.  Youhave said many things i have thought the past week.  Sunday we sang God Bless America in our church and I could not muster the stomach to sing along.  USAmerica has long thought of itself as the New Jerusalem a God ordained nation of freedom.  President Bush made a comment Sunday that spoke much to my ears.  He stated that America was going back to work Monday.  What about all those people who never stop working serving the ones who work only Monday to Friday.  There are many problems with this country and to solve them we need moew voices like yours.  I had an idea that we should send 1 million people to live in afganistan and their goal would be to serve, no preaching, no expectations just service.  I think the results would be amazing.  Maybe that is what we should do here.  Our culture has become a place were the rich rule and the poor serve, maybe that is what it has always been.  As a Christian I can not get the call of Christ to love my enemies out of my head.  The people who did this are not cowards, they are committed followers of a cause.  At some level they should be admired for their diligence.  If we could emulate that tenacity many of the issues you raise could/would end.  No amount of our destruction loosed upon an unknown enemy will end this cycle.  But i fear we are a weak and selfish lot and war is the path of least resistance.  I had a co-worker comment that he felt good that Bush was a believer and that he would be seeking God in this and do his will.  I immediatley ask what security do we have that would happen and his response was anger.  Anger that I would question such a thing.  It is easy to quote an eye for an eye but another thing to understand its implication for our children and future struggles.  So keep pushing the dogs of fear back and keep ever diligent in your quest to raise the dialogue from the gutter, where it seems to spend a majority of its life.  It would be great if we as a country would listen and do what we so easily ask of others.
<br />
<br />John
