---
date: '2001-09-18T17:18:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Daniel,
<br />
<br />The whole question of omnipotence haunts me everyday.  I sat this last week and watch things that horrified me and then heard something like falwell said from many close friends and others.  It all scares me.  It seems though that when we followers of Christ begin to question the nature of God on this one we tremble with fear, as if even asking the question will damn us.  I ask it almost everyday.  I have not done an exhaustive study but have done some reading.  Greg Boyd's God at War seems to be the best thing I have come accross to explain the idea of God not being omnipotent.  He is expanding on the work of Pinnock and Brow and their openess of god theory.  IMO pinnock and brow go too far and create an image of God that is like this big guy in the sky treating us with only love and peace.  The question Boyd raises is why does God have to be omnipotent to be God.  In Daniel, he prayers for God's intervention and when Michael finally arrives three weeks later, he tells Daniel that he had been detained.
<br />
<br />Daniel 10:12-14,
<br />Then he continued, "Do not be afraid, Daniel. Since the first day that you set your mind to gain understanding and to humble yourself before your God, your words were heard, and I have come in response to them.
<br />But the prince of the Persian kingdom resisted me twenty-one days. Then Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me, because I was detained there with the king of Persia.
<br />Now I have come to explain to you what will happen to your people in the future, for the vision concerns a time yet to come."
<br />
<br />The question that I can not get rid of why if michael knew he needed to help daniel didn't he go right away.  He states that he was detained.  Can God or his angels be detained?  There is a never ending circle of questions and more questions that stir in my mind.  I ma not sure if this is something we can or should try to answer, yet I must try.  It helps me know God deeper by this quesitoning.  But for some it is to much to even imagine a God that does not control everything.
<br />
<br />Then you get into the whole evil thing.  If God did not create it or can not even know it how can he use ti to judge us? If God uses evil to judge stir or kill us then he must know it.  Evil is!  But did God create it?  I don't know.  But IMO we get very close to having to say he did if we have to believe that God is omnipotent he must have at least a working knowledge of evil, if not creating it.  I know this sounds like heresy to some but I think it is the logical progression of the comments made by many in the Christian world.  Maybe we are attempting to understand something we can't and never will.
<br />
<br />John
<br />
<br />
