---
date: '2001-12-12T02:22:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

HOUSE2HOUSE ARTICLE
<br />
<br />Three years ago my wife, Lisa, our three kids and I moved from Northern 
<br />Minnesota to San Francisco to “start a house church movement” among what we 
<br />use to call “Urban Post-modern peoples.” We bought an old Victorian house in 
<br />the Mission District-- an eclectic multicultural neighborhood including Latin 
<br />American Immigrants, old Hippies, Punk Rockers, Bohemian Marxists, Art 
<br />Activists, young gay men, lesbians, and Dot Com hipsters. We chose San 
<br />Francisco because of it long-standing reputation as the most progressive, 
<br />postmodern and post-Christian city in America. This is where we wanted to 
<br />work out faith and Christian community. 
<br />
<br />We had every hope that this venture would be successful. I had just finished 
<br />a three-year stint working with students at a traditional church. They hated 
<br />my best efforts at the classic youth ministry “thang”-the wanging electric 
<br />guitar worship songs and comedy a la hardcore-gospel-message routine.  There 
<br />was a disconnect between the realities of their lives and the culture-bound 
<br />practices of our church.  I invited them to come to our house, “the shack” 
<br />on Sunday nights.  It started with Lisa and I and three students around a 
<br />campfire in the woods behind our house. Eventually Sunday night “Rocks” 
<br />replaced the youth program at the church. More and more students started 
<br />showing up with their non-believing friends. Our living room was packed with 
<br />skate kids, punk rockers, hippie girls, sports and band people from seven 
<br />different high schools. Everything we did was participatory and experiential. 
<br />I led behind the scenes and mentored  5 or 6 senior high students who 
<br />facilitated most of the meetings. We had lively discussions on pop culture, 
<br />sexuality, death, philosophy, and the Bible. We worshipped. We prayed. We 
<br />celebrated communion. We had ministry times where people would pray and speak 
<br />prophetically over one another. The Holy Spirit manifested in some amazing 
<br />ways! Students, who had never been to a church, were showing up with friends 
<br />and engaging in our discussions, prayer and worship. They sensed a warm and 
<br />different vibe. After six or eight months they would come to me and say, 
<br />“Mark, what is this I hear about being saved?” 
<br />
<br />We looked hard at the early chapters of the book of Acts and Paul’s writing 
<br />on the fellowship of believers-and gradually came to the realization that 
<br />this ragamuffin crew of kids was fulfilling New Testament functions of a 
<br />church.  
<br />
<br />Our very first experience leading a relationally-based group happened five 
<br />years earlier. Back then Lisa and I spent our time working with children and 
<br />families in low-income housing projects. It grieved us to see that, when 
<br />these Jerry Springer style families found faith, they didn’t feel comfortable 
<br />or accepted in our middle-class church. We also drooled over Acts 2:42-47 
<br />where the church seemed like an empowered dynamic of relationships rather 
<br />than a culturally bound institution. We wanted a simple and informal 
<br />alternative to the highly organized form of the typical church. We invited 
<br />two other couples to join us on Sunday nights to experiment with “New 
<br />Testament church life.” Within two months there were 30 of us meeting 
<br />including 10 kids! It was a great mix of professionals, working class people 
<br />AND families from the projects. We ate meals together, met for worship and 
<br />communion, and served one another in practical ways. It was a great 
<br />experiment! I was only 22, and was not prepared for the level of leadership 
<br />and organization required to sustain such a group. So after a summer break we 
<br />didn’t call the group back together. However, this experience gave us 
<br />confidence that we could potentially catalyze relationally-based Christian 
<br />community. 
<br />
<br />Roll forward to San Francisco 1998. In the first six months two house 
<br />churches formed with 10-12 people per group. People were excited about the 
<br />dream of true community and the possibility of seeing a faith movement happen 
<br />in San Francisco birthed from these house churches.  But quickly things got 
<br />weird…
<br />
<br />Our group had a tendency to react to the traditional American expressions of 
<br />the church. Many of us had never felt accepted by the church or had been hurt 
<br />by church relationships. A lot of us were idealists who longed for the 
<br />reclamation of the church in the book of Acts and its redemptive potential in 
<br />society. And each of us faced some internal and external criticism for our 
<br />decision to leave the dominant church paradigm. And, lets face it, it takes a 
<br />lot more commitment and participation to be in a house church than an 
<br />audience-based worship service. This led some of us to develop a rather 
<br />dogmatic “Biblical” rationale for the structure and functioning of our 
<br />church. If we were giving our lives to this, and it was costing us so much 
<br />time and energy, then it had better be the “right” way. We spent a lot of 
<br />energy reinforcing and defending our position and “disciplining” those who 
<br />weren’t as ardent or committed to the model.       
<br />
<br />We were never able to settle issues of leadership and organization. All of us 
<br />somewhat fit the sterotypical psychic profile of Generation X. Most of us 
<br />grew up in single parent households where we learned to distrust authority 
<br />and take care of ourselves. Others of us were reacting to over-authoritarian 
<br />religious upbringings. Consequently we feared and avoided anything resembling 
<br />order, planning, organization or directive leadership. It had to be 
<br />spontaneous and organic. There could be no leadership beyond the collective 
<br />consensus. This made it extremely difficult for us to make decisions or take 
<br />action.     
<br />
<br />Sometimes the people who need a sense of Christian community the most are 
<br />least equipped for community. We weren’t prepared for the level of brokeness 
<br />among the people in our church. Most of us wrestled with depression, 
<br />addiction recovery, gender and sexuality issues, relational tensions, or some 
<br />type of mental disorder-issues common to the population of San Francisco. 
<br />Everyone made valiant efforts to seek God and love one another. But, as a 
<br />group, we simply didn’t have the collective energy to function sustainably in 
<br />a healthy way.  In our immature or misguided efforts to love, we often hurt 
<br />one another.
<br />
<br />Our church stayed together for more than two years. There were some beautiful 
<br />moments along the way: Courageous acts or love and self-sacrifice; care for 
<br />the poor and marginalized; generosity; people sharing living space; 
<br />opportunities to witness and tender moments of affection--and lots of 
<br />memories: retreats; camping trips; hikes, long talks, hundreds of meals, etc. 
<br />We did some things as a church that we hadn’t seen or done before. We tried 
<br />and did the best we could with the insight and resources we had.
<br />
<br />One of the more painful disappointments was the unrealized dream of seeing 
<br />our generation experience life with God. We sincerely thought that reforming 
<br />the structure and functions of the church would unleash the power of the New 
<br />Testament church.  In retrospect I believe our house church ambitions were a 
<br />premature resolution to larger issues facing the people of God in the West. 
<br />
<br />We live in a society that is increasingly secular, post-Christian and 
<br />postmodern-dramatically different from the cultural ethos and social 
<br />structures that allowed for the expansion and maintenance of a Christian 
<br />movement in the modern era. This cultural shift has prompted many of us to 
<br />deconstruct our modernist American conservative evangelicalism. The modernist 
<br />version of life with God simply doesn’t work for us-in form or content. We 
<br />thought that merely changing the form of the church would adequately address 
<br />the challenges of an emerging postmodern era. But the deconstruction and 
<br />eventual reconstruction must be more fundamental.  I’m convinced that a 
<br />proactive movement of faith will not come from this deconstructive phase or a 
<br />superficial reconstruction. Nor will it come from a preoccupation with 
<br />maintaining “spiritual” market shares through pragmatic repackaging and 
<br />image management of old time modernist Christianity.  
<br />
<br />I did not avoid the temptation to use relationally-based multiplication 
<br />models as a utilitarian alternative to failing church growth technologies. I 
<br />wanted to be successful. We moved to San Francisco without adequate 
<br />sensitivity to varying spiritual atmospheres.  Our positive house church 
<br />experiences in the Midwest developed in a culture bathed in a Judeo-Christian 
<br />ethos. As a pastor I had positional credibility, language and cultural 
<br />fluency and a ready audience eager for what I had to offer. People were 
<br />looking for the “Uber-Spiritual” experience of a house church. We were 
<br />naïve to think that the same approach would be effective in a thoroughly 
<br />post-Christian environment-with a population generally hostile to Christian 
<br />faith.    
<br />
<br />In our quest for the recovery of transforming life, we hadn’t gone far back 
<br />enough. We were still coming up with answers that only work for people still 
<br />in the shadow of a modernist Christian culture. We went to the book of Acts 
<br />for a prescriptive solution. But the events in the book of Acts were prompted 
<br />by a compelling primal reality-Jesus. We needed to go back to the gospels and 
<br />rediscover the goodness and beauty of the kingdom of God.
<br />
<br />Jesus is the place where reconstruction begins. One time a guy in a tattoo 
<br />shop told me, “Jesus is cool. Its just that the church has F%#$ed with Jesus. 
<br />I think Christianity was at its best when it was secret, hidden and you could 
<br />die for it.” Jesus came announcing “the Kingdom of God is at hand” His good 
<br />news was that the creator is caring, present and now active bringing all of 
<br />life back into the Genesis vision.  We have begun to embrace Jesus not only 
<br />as savior but also teacher. Jesus makes the way to life and shows us how to 
<br />live life in the kingdom of God.  
<br />
<br />In our exuberance to see a faith movement happen in our generation, we 
<br />confused the questions. We started by asking “What form(s) should the church 
<br />take in this emerging culture?” When we needed to be asking, “What does the 
<br />life and teaching of Jesus mean in this time and place?” We made the church 
<br />the kingdom instead of seeking the kingdom as the people of God. 
<br />
<br />For now our family is exploring a primal pursuit of Jesus and his kingdom. We 
<br />are acknowledging that we know a lot less than we thought we knew. We have a 
<br />loose network of fellow postmodern pilgrim friends also working out life with 
<br />God in San Francisco. Our gatherings are about practicing and imitating 
<br />Jesus’ life in our neighborhoods: eating with the homeless, creating art, 
<br />engaging in classic spiritual disciplines, practicing hospitality, etc. Our 
<br />vision has changed from a house church movement to an indigenous kingdom 
<br />movement. 
<br />
<br />Awhile back we developed the following identity statement:
<br />
<br />“We are a movement of people in San Francisco, who, believing that our city 
<br />is loved by God, seek a way of life that reverberates with the goodness and 
<br />beauty of the kingdom of God.” 
<br /> 
<br />Mark Scandrette lives with his family in the Mission District of San 
<br />Francisco. He is cofounder of Re/Imagine!, an incubator for Kingdom Living in 
<br />San Francisco. He can be reached at Scandrette@aol.com.
<br />
<br />Re/IMAGINE!
<br />Mark A. Scandrette
<br />
