---
date: '2001-12-15T14:22:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

From Time Magazine, Dec. 17th, 2001 issue, p.60-61 "God as a Postmodern" by
<br />David van Biema
<br />
<br />   "Christian faith has long endured the chipping away at authority that is
<br />the hallmark of modern academia. But church and campus have never seemed as
<br />estranged as they have since the advent of postmodernism, the notion that
<br />there is no universal truth, merely competing "narratives" jockeying
<br />eternally for supremacy. That is, until 1990, when a young British professor
<br />named John Milbank pioneered what "The Chronicle of Higher Education" has
<br />suggested may be the "biggest development in theology since Martin Luther
<br />nailed his 95 theses to the church door."
<br />   Milbank opted to cite (if not love) his enemy. By exposing the nihilism
<br />of secular thought, he writes, postmodernism freed Christian theology from
<br />the need to "measure up to ... standards of scientific truth and normative
<br />rationality." Thus unburdened, he suggests, it enjoys several advantages
<br />over secular competitiors. Long before postmodernism, Christianity accpeted
<br />unknowableness as part of God's nature. The Christian "story" is dense with
<br />associations and can be applied universally. In fact, he writes, its central
<br />dynamic of ever unfolding divine love places it outside - and above -
<br />postmodernism's conviction that each contending world view is rooted in and
<br />sustained by violence.
<br />   Milbank's conclusion: Christian theology can now reclaim its medieval
<br />position as "queen of the sciences", before which disciplines like
<br />sociology, philosophy and economics must bow down. He and colleagues dubbed
<br />their movement "radical orthodoxy" and began a giddy exploration of
<br />theology's vast, recovered social responsibilities.
<br />   The effort made them academic stars - Milbank, 49, occupies a prestigious
<br />chair at the University of Virginia - and drew fierce fire. He notes that "I
<br />would not expect Muslims or Buddhists to buy this wholly, at all." Even some
<br />fellow believers find it hard to square his vision of a peaceful,
<br />all-embracing Christianity with the religion that burned heretics and
<br />launched crusades. Besides, not everyone is a postmodernist. Conservatives
<br />cringe when he says that discussions of the acutal physical reality of the
<br />resurrection have "no place" in his theology. But at the very least, he has
<br />cleared a way for the theologians to reclaim their place at the academic
<br />table, ending decades, if not centuries of marginalization.
<br />
