---
date: '2001-10-16T23:14:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

John,
<br />
<br />awesome. f**king awesome.
<br />
<br />i wondered to myself if i should post my comments here or somewhere else, but from your discussion on criticism on faithmaps and the fact that this is primarily a site of friends, i decided to post them here.
<br />
<br />only two things, really. i would continue to develop the imagery in the story. what setting is it? dirt floors? stone floors? wood floors? carpeted floors? or for us to decide? you get the idea. paint just a little more with your words. give us just enough to really become absorbed in the story. for example, your part about sneezing and how dust had always been a problem for Josef was really great! (also just the spelling of the name Josef conjuered a particular look and time for me.)
<br />
<br />also, i would leave the ending a little more vague. the meaning of the story is clear. here is my suggestion (first sentence from you for context {w/ 1 editorial correction :) }):
<br />
<br />"He would secretly share the story with friends and trusted associates until their joy and desire to claim their heritage would grow into a force the village and its people could not ignore. He would allow God to tell this new story, and others, too. And he would tell his stories to anyone who cared to listen, to seek a way to embrace the mystery that had so radically changed his world."
<br />
<br />full stop. also i would start a new paragraph with that section and use Josef instead of 'he' on that first sentence (if you were to use this) because i realized that was too many 'he's' all together.
<br />
<br />more positives: loved the martyr aspect to the story. loved the characters. at times i can relate to each character in this story. 
<br />
<br />this is the beauty of stories. you don't say what's right and what's wrong. you allow the conscience of the reader make the decision for him/her. you completely allow their context to affect their meanings, but at the same time you really are having a great deal of influence.
<br />
<br />fantastic.
<br />
<br />please if anyone else would like to comment, don't hesitate. if you aren't a part of our contributor's team, just email me. the email address is somewhere on this page (sorry i'm too lazy to type the tag!) :P.
<br />
<br />cheers, daniel
