---
date: '2001-11-12T16:56:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

For the benefit of those here between Nov 15 and 18th:
<br />
<br />"
<br />
<br />A photograph that 'may define a generation' 
<br />
<br />Edward Fine 
<br />National Post 
<br />
<br />The bus arrived at One World Trade Center; I looked at my watch and thought, "Not bad, about an hour and a half, door to door." I walked through the door and headed straight to the reception area for visitors; I knew the routine from my prior visits. I presented my passport, gave the name of the firm and individual I would be seeing. The receptionist called; John Paul was in. My pass was issued immediately. I could go right up.
<br />
<br />Could all of this have been different? Yes, I might have made the earlier ferry and John Paul might not have been in yet. There could have been traffic on the city streets and I might have arrived 15 minutes later. Any number of other permutations and combinations could have changed the spot I stood in when the plane hit. A series of seconds and inches interwoven into a pattern of life dictating the future, dissectible, guided.
<br />
<br />The door was open, I entered. John Paul came to greet me. His office faced the Hudson; I sat looking out over the river, John Paul his back to it. A small boat, perhaps a ferry, was crossing the river. From the 87th floor, it looked small, everything looked small. I commented that this was the type of day just such an office was made for.
<br />
<br />John Paul and I spent some time together, I don't know how much, it didn't seem important. I was early, my next appointment was hours off, I had time to spare. Life seemed to be smiling on me. John Paul introduced me to some colleagues, nice young men, perhaps a little younger then my son. My business was concluded. We shook hands and John Paul accompanied me to the door. I had to use the men's room, John Paul didn't have his key but the receptionist did have one. I took it. I returned the key, made a phone call, got no answer, left a message, altering the time-line of my life by seconds and inches.
<br />
<br />Coincidence, I don't think so.
<br />
<br />I left the 87th floor office, got the elevator quickly and reached the 78th floor, the changing point for the elevator to the ground floor. I exited the elevator, took a few steps and saw the down elevator waiting. I started to hurry, too late, the door closed. I turned and walked to my right toward another bank of elevators, hoping to find a quick way down. I turned and headed back in the opposite direction toward the windows, looked at the bank of elevators and realized they were not the ones that would take me to the ground floor.
<br />
<br />Only 25 to 30 seconds had elapsed since I had missed the earlier elevator. I turned again and walked a few steps, three or four seconds, maybe less, and was opposite an adjoining hallway. I stopped, faced the hallway, heard an explosion, turned to my left and saw a wall of debris and smoke heading for me, heard screams, leaped into the adjoining hallway as the smoke and debris flew by. My first thought was that a bomb had gone off, I was lucky to be standing in front of that hallway. Would there be a fire, unbreathable smoke, floor collapse? The explosion seemed to have been right there on my floor. Wait, I am alive, uninjured, more screams, people emerging from the main corridor screaming and injured or burned, or both. Mass confusion, go into survival mode, must get out of the building, find emergency exit, get some fresh air before being overcome by smoke....
<br />
<br />We ran down the steps as fast as we could and as fast as the traffic in front of us would allow. We all knew that time was our enemy. You could smell the smoke. Was there a serious fire, there must be. Focus on moving, don't look back, ignore the pain. Need fresh air. After about 20 floors of moving fast, we started to encounter serious traffic. Why are we stopped, we have to keep moving, smoky smell, bad feeling. Most were calm, one or two start to yell, a brief panic, calm restored. We started to move, making decent time but not great. Seconds seemed like hours, every moment counted. Stopped again, what's going on, why are we stopped? What happened? Moving again, lady handing out wet paper towels, didn't need one, I'm okay. Stopped again, sweating, loosened tie, shock wearing off, we need to move, legs hurting, where are we? Moving again, stopped. Get wet paper towel. Getting warmer, or does it just seem that way. Come on get going, moving, making good time, stopped. Everybody to the right, injured coming down, 30th floor, maybe we will get out in time. Moving, stopped, emergency personnel coming up, real heroes, can't pay them enough, get to right, clear pathway, moving again, 25th floor, air fresher, careful broken glass below, stopped.
<br />
<br />....We reach 20th fl., come on not so far to go now, let's move, stopped, more emergency people going up. Moving again, faster, yes, yes 10th fl., air getting cooler, 6th fl., be careful water down below, 5th floor, steps wet, 4th ,water getting deeper, keep moving, not far to go now, 2nd, wetter, fresher air, cool, smelling the outside, inches from freedom. We reach the ground floor, temporary jubilation, no time for celebrating, keep moving, follow directions to exit, legs in agony, want help, no, I can make it, deep water, sprinklers pouring down on us, light, freedom, we are outside. Time to rest, no, keep moving get away from the building, look up, building burning, look down, debris and dirt all over, what happened, could it have been a plane?
<br />
<br />One block away, can't walk anymore, must rest, sit, safe now, fresh air, the ordeal is over, must call home and let everyone know I am safe, can't, they need the lines for emergency personnel....
<br />
<br />Walking now, ever so slowly, EXPLOSION, look back, building crumbling, frozen, awe struck, RUN someone screams, start running, legs hurt not moving very fast, turn corner get ten feet, look back, large cloud of debris, ash and smoke heading my way, can't outrun it, lie down a voice calls, we lie face down on the street, a priest starts praying, DEATH has arrived for me. We are engulfed, warm ash covering us, breathing extremely difficult, hold your breath, keep your eyes closed, suffocation. I take the wet towel, the one given to me by the lady on the stairs, from my pocket, place it over my nose and mouth and try sucking air through it. It is possible but not enough air, keep trying, a minute goes by, open eyes, big mistake, ash gets in them, close them again, no light anyway, the darkest dark imaginable, nothing. More minutes pass by, can't tell how many, open eyes, light coming through. Maybe I will be saved. More light, café across the street, people are heading for it. I get up and struggle to it and get inside, still don't feel safe but at least there is clean air and fresh water. I sit down and drink. I am covered with an inch or more of ash. I look at other supernatural appearing beings, it strikes me as surreal....
<br />
<br />Once more my life has been saved by mere minutes. I rest, and wait for some of the air outside to clear. I must get moving again. Nothing here is safe and the air is unhealthy. I leave the café, Au Bon Pain, thinking of survival and how nice the café's employees were, attending to the injured, providing free everything. New Yorkers are great people, made even more extraordinary when faced with impossible circumstances. The real heroes, police, fireman and rescue workers and the everyday heroes who pitch in without being called. A melting pot of the extraordinary.
<br />
<br />I emerge from the café and begin walking uptown. Limping would be more precise. I can't imagine getting back to the Waterway and the ferry in this condition. I have not cleaned myself off, but I see many like me. After several blocks I spot a bus that appears to be loading passengers. Upon reaching the bus, I learn it is heading for the Port Authority. Close enough for me. I board. I call home and after numerous tries, finally get through. I am almost safe. After 20 minutes, the bus finally is able to move. We are on our way. I will live.
<br />
<br />God was watching me.
<br />
<br />"
