---
date: '2001-09-26T20:56:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

>Works Echo Differently When Life Overtakes Art
<br />>
<br />>September 25, 2001
<br />>
<br />>By HOLLAND COTTER
<br />>
<br />>
<br />>
<br />>
<br />>Does contemporary art have an impact on everyday life? The
<br />>matter is up for debate. There's no question, though, that
<br />>life can transform the way we look at new art.
<br />>
<br />>An overwhelming political or social crisis - AIDS, for
<br />>example - can alter aesthetic taste. Art that seemed smart
<br />>and zeitgeisty one day feels out of sync the next.
<br />>Hard-to-categorize work suddenly makes total sense. Fresh
<br />>images, styles and attitudes emerge to deal with current
<br />>events.
<br />>
<br />>With the destruction of the World Trade Center this dynamic
<br />>went into play. American culture was on instant high alert,
<br />>scrambling both to accommodate what was happening and to
<br />>avoid giving offense. Television shows were rescripted;
<br />>films were pulled from release; Broadway plays discreetly
<br />>dropped bits that might seem insensitive.
<br />>
<br />>By contrast, gallery shows opened pretty much as planned.
<br />>Most art isn't amenable to last-minute editing. And the art
<br />>world resists self-censorship, for good reason. Art
<br />>routinely gets punished for "offenses" - sexual, religious,
<br />>whatever - that the rest of American culture gets away
<br />>with. The only way to deal with this is to hold your
<br />>ground. So even shows made problematic by the recent
<br />>tragedy appeared as originally intended.
<br />>
<br />>One of these was the New York solo debut of the young
<br />>German artist Christoph Draeger, which opened last week at
<br />>Roebling Hall in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Disaster and
<br />>violence are Mr. Draeger's subjects. In the 1990's he
<br />>visited the sites of plane crashes, explosions and tornados
<br />>and constructed detailed models of the scenes, which he
<br />>photographed or painted.
<br />>
<br />>His obsession with destruction - its unpredictable
<br />>occurrence, the voyeuristic fascination it inspires -
<br />>culminated in a 1999 video titled "Crash," currently on
<br />>view at the Palm Beach Institute of Contemporary Art in
<br />>Florida. It is made up entirely of images of midair
<br />>collisions lifted from from news films, amateur videos and
<br />>Hollywood movies, spliced together into a prolonged
<br />>experience of shattering impact.
<br />>
<br />>The effect isn't all that different from the endless
<br />>television replays of planes striking the twin towers. And
<br />>for anyone who watched the buildings collapse over and over
<br />>again on television, aspects of Mr. Draeger's Roebling Hall
<br />>show may have uncomfortable resonance.
<br />>
<br />>In the center of the gallery sits a burned-out
<br />>camper-trailer, eerily reminiscent of the ruined cars that
<br />>recently littered Lower Manhattan streets. A video running
<br />>inside the trailer delivers a short, brutal narrative: a
<br />>young woman wakes up in the trailer, gets drunk, goes crazy
<br />>and immolates herself. The final sequence, an exterior shot
<br />>of the trailer bursting into clouds of fire and smoke, is
<br />>projected large onto the gallery wall.
<br />>
<br />>All of this was conceived months ago, but time has caught
<br />>up with it. Staged scenes of entrapment and destruction
<br />>have been overtaken by stunning real-time correspondents.
<br />>And when art and life cross paths this way, there is no
<br />>comparison between them. Art can't help but seem at best
<br />>child's play, at worst perverse self-indulgence and part of
<br />>a different, distant, artificial world.
<br />>
<br />>But being part of a different world is important. It
<br />>permits Mr. Draeger to add something more to his work, to
<br />>move it into the realm of metaphor where life and art can
<br />>imaginatively coexist. He has filled three of the gallery
<br />>walls surrounding the incinerated trailer with a
<br />>continuous, floor-to-ceiling video projection of a dense,
<br />>lush rain forest (actually shot at the Bronx Zoo), offering
<br />>a cool, restorative vision of paradisal life rising from
<br />>the ashes.
<br />>
<br />>Other New York artists, and their number is surely growing
<br />>by the day, are making work in direct response to the trade
<br />>center disaster. Within days of the event, the three-man
<br />>team of Gustavo Bonevardi, John Bennett and Robert Hammond
<br />>circulated a proposal on the Internet "for the immediate
<br />>construction of the Manhattan skyline." It involves
<br />>installing 80 high-intensity laser lights near the trade
<br />>center site and projecting silhouettes of the Towers 1 and
<br />>2 as beams of light against the night sky.
<br />>
<br />>The artists Paul Myoda and Julian LaVerdiere came up with a
<br />>similarly utopian proposal, which they titled "Phantom
<br />>Towers." (A computer- manipulated version of it appeared on
<br />>the cover of The New York Times Magazine on Sunday.) They
<br />>have now joined up with Mr. Bonevardi, Mr. Bennett and Mr.
<br />>Hammond in what they are calling the "Tower of Light"
<br />>initiative, sponsored by the nonprofit arts organization
<br />>Creative Time.
<br />>
<br />>Mr. Myoda and Mr. LaVerdiere spent a lot of time in the
<br />>trade center last year. They were participants in an
<br />>international residency program called World Views, which
<br />>under the auspices of the Lower Manhattan Cultural Council
<br />>provided artists with studio space on the 91st floor of
<br />>Tower 1. A participant in this year's program, the
<br />>Jamaican-born artist Michael Richards, was trapped in the
<br />>tower when it collapsed.
<br />>
<br />>At a memorial gathering at the Studio Museum in Harlem on
<br />>Friday, one of his colleagues in the program, Jeff
<br />>Konigsberg, said that Mr. Richards arrived at the 91st
<br />>floor at 9 p.m. on Monday, Sept. 10, planning to work late
<br />>into the night. He was not heard from again. His body was
<br />>identified last week.
<br />>
<br />>Mr. Konigsberg also described the almost-finished
<br />>sculptures in Mr. Richards's trade center studio. They were
<br />>part of a series he had been working on for nearly decade
<br />>based on the theme of the Tuskegee Airmen, a segregated
<br />>unit of African- American pilots who were awarded more than
<br />>150 Flying Crosses for valor during World War II, even
<br />>though, like all blacks in the armed forces at the time,
<br />>they were officially assigned noncombat "support" roles.
<br />>
<br />>Mr. Richards's homage to them often took the form of a
<br />>gilded bronze or steel figure cast from his own body. One
<br />>of these, "Tar Baby vs. St. Sebastian," was exhibited two
<br />>years ago at the Studio Museum. The figure, in a sleek
<br />>flight uniform, has the timeless look of a space traveler,
<br />>standing erect, his face turned upward, his feet several
<br />>inches from the ground, as if he were levitating or
<br />>ascending. In place of the arrows shot at the Christian
<br />>martyr-saint, the airman is pierced with a dozen small
<br />>fighter planes, which seem to both wound him and lift him
<br />>up. Art and life meet in the shadow of tragedy and are made
<br />>larger by the encounter.
<br />>
<br />>http://www.nytimes.com/2001/09/25/arts/design/25NOTE.html?ex=1002425483&ei=1&en=d115bd65d43317af
<br />>
<br />
