---
date: '2001-11-18T00:05:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Well, two-thirds in, two days out of three down, one more about to commence, and the maybe-not-so artistic-event-of-the-century has had an interesting history.
<br />
<br />Showed up and immediately thought it was going to be a bust. A birthday party had been booked for the room of the restaurant that my show was supposed to be happening. Now, a few tables being occupied is in fact a great thing, but a packed room with drunk people celebrating somebody's 30-whatever-eth birthday is not the proper backdrop for a F_N ART PREMIER! :(  Good news was they moved the party to a different room. :)
<br />
<br />Set up was very difficult, but after quite a few hitches, the thing was up and running by 7:15, for my 8:00 opening. Soon enough my constiuency showed, and we had a great time. People interfaced with it as they felt like it. It was a slightly distracting environ for this group of high-thinkers. They look forward to interfacing with it in the relative peace of their homesteads. Also my said constiuency was much smaller than anticipated, and to all of you who blew me off, that's your thing. I'll try not to think bad thoughts about you for too long. No need to perpetuate the karma.
<br />
<br />All and all a great opening night. Met a bunch of new, interesting people; a lot of positive vibes about the work. Didn't have too big a headache at 2 am after being at Dada since 3:30.
<br />
<br />Last night was less than steller. The crowd at the place was a much different crowd than that of the night prior; and not because my usual crowd wasn't there; the actual entire place had a different vibe. It was much more clematis/south beach club scene types (or maybe wanna be's and that's why there were there). Had Marylin Manson's "The Beautiful People" going through my head a lot of the night. Just the part that goes "(guitar) du-du-du-dom ...the beautiful people, the beautiful people... du-du-du-dom." Read a lot of a decent book. It was an interesting experience, at one point there were people sitting all around me. I couldn't actually move because I was completely cornered (there's no way for you to imagine this if you haven't been to this room in this place, but just go with it). I was reading my book and listening in on two other conversations at once, sort of subconsciously; I wasn't actually following any of the conversations around me, but little phrases and bits were making their way into my ears and distorting the story I was trying to concentrate on in my book. It was cul. :)
<br />
<br />Anyway. so far, no more or less than expected. It's been interesting and education and at times fun and harrowing. Cheers.
