---
date: '2001-11-19T16:14:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

It's taken me an extra day to comment on my last night installed at Dada because yesterday i had to get this shite ready for the web, adding just a hair more content and making double sure it was going to work from there. I didn't have enough time to add music the way I want to so I have created a release schedule and that is up for v.1.2. Give me about 2 weeks. About that time you should be up for another go-round with the work. Maybe.
<br />
<br />Anyway, my last night went pretty good. Very slow to start. Saw some familiar faces. Thanks Gotz and Harry for coming out. You are both true artists and, I can say now, friends.
<br />
<br />A large group came and hung out in the back room and really lit up the night. Thanks Tim for initiating ya'll's time with the interface. And for chatting for a little bit. I really appreciated how you and your friends (almost) all took the time to explore the work. It made me feel good when about three of you all came up one after the other and checked it out. Also my hat off to the girl that found the one bug! I couldn't believe I had a bug, but fortunately it was easy to back out of and no-one else discovered it.
<br />
<br />So that was cool.
<br />
<br />About the same time Scott came and hung out, and also Kathy. Thanks again ya'll for hangin' and helpin'. God bless you. You know I was on my last thread at that point.
<br />
<br />Final thoughts? Oh, I don't know. Scott made the wisest comment when he said that it would catch on if it were installed somewhere permanently, and we just made something new every 2-3 months. Most people didn't know what to make of it, but when word got around, like within that big group yesterday, people were a lot less intimidated by it and worked with it. Their friends would show them what to do, etc. I realized Scott was right when I thought of the many, many people who walked back to the room, known as the movie room, and told their friends, "they play movies in this room." Some realized there was no movie but something else very strange projected on the wall (OH, BTW, the projector broke Saturday night. Oh well.). But most had their expectations dashed (ha ha). But what if there was an installation "room" or "corner." Then we might really make some headway.
<br />
<br />Where an installation like that would work best I have no idea. People still drink, for the most part, and especially late at night with similar people of the opposite sex, so they can looz thar inhabishons and hav a diff-rent kind a "spiri-chal es-peer-ee-ants." Women dress as so to be objectified by even the most loyal of their defenders (yours truely included), and the looks of desperation show through even the toughest or sexiest of facades.
<br />
<br />But thank you millions to those who aren't in that mold and came out to think, experience, and love. Feel infinate warm karmic hugs coming back to you.
<br />
<br />Cheers and continue to seek stories, beauty and meaning.
