---
date: '2001-09-24T02:52:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

Here's the original postlude:
<br />
<br />Interesting things happened during the making of this work. I set out one Sunday afternoon to find subjects, as my work with film is primarily about the subject matter and connections with meaning. I look for juxtapositions, hidden beauties, subtle connections, textures, integrations... 
<br />
<br />I found that the area I live in, South Florida (I've decided to capitalize the South because it deserves it), is so washed out, that there is nothing strikingly beautiful, nor strikingly "not" beautiful. Even the construction (and there is a lot of it) is done in a way to point strongly to the "new and improved"...there is nothing really old here, and even if there were, they wouldn't let it stay that way. I live in a world of newer, bigger, faster, hotter to the extreme.
<br />
<br />Textures are forgone for clean angles; beautiful age is forgone for fresh paint, another face job; the new has no time for the old, the old not enough time to keep up with the new. 
<br />
<br />So in responding to a letter which reeked of not just capitalism, but materialism and chauvinism, I found it ironic that I live in an area so strong in all of the above. An area that is so skilled in their ways, that nothing is left to even mock it.
<br />
<br />Adapt or die. 
<br />
<br />I think I'm dead.
<br />
<br />So the work became a true integration of two trips into my world, a trip to another world (NJ), and what I could make for myself, thrown together with whatever has been around me, complicated terribly by the events of September 11.
<br />
<br />Perhaps you have been able to construct some meaning from this, but if not, please accept my encouragement to create your own meanings for the tragic events of our lives. Just don't implicate me. I'm guilty already.
<br />
<br />
