---
date: '2001-09-28T02:06:00Z'
title: "..."
category:
layout: post
---

First I'd like to give an update, that the brunt of the content for hate mail is done. Pictures scanned, pages built ~90%. Now I'm just doing some music bits, then I just need a venue! Please stay tuned, and if you know of any venue in soFla that could host hate mail (for maybe a week--my first choice so far is a coffee shop), or anyone who could donate technology (just for the show) like an old laptop or a touchscreen computer--I would be sure to make their company or org name prominent in the display...thanks!
<br />
<br />Now, I'd like to announce the official soundtrack for hate mail! Like I said, you all can compile your own CD's for the project through ripping friends' CD's or through <a href="www.musiccity.com">Morpheus</a>. If you want to get one from me, then just <a href="mailto:dealingwith@yahoo.com">bribe me</a> with something appropriate (something between 3 bucks and a sushi lunch). :)
<br />
<br />I'm still working on the exact order--however hate mail is a non-linear story/installation--so order doesn't matter so much--so I'll leave it up to you! Without further ado:
<br />{format: artist - album - song}
<br />Henryk Gorecki - Symphony No.3 Opus 36 - "Sym No.3, Op.36: I. Lento - Sostenuto Tranquillo Ma Cantabile"
<br />Thomas Newman - American Beauty Sndtrck - "Any Other Name"
<br />Radiohead - Kid A - "Everything In Its Right Place"
<br />Badly Drawn Boy - Hour of Bewilderbeast - "Pissing in the Wind"
<br />Elliot Smith - self titled - "Good To Go"
<br />Flickerstick - ??(but this is the one they made their video of for bands on the run) - "Smile"
<br />Michael Knott - Live in Nash Vegas - "Double"
<br />Rufus Wainwright - Poses - "California"
<br />Jeff Buckley - Grace - "Hallelujah"
<br />Chris Rice - Smell the #9 - "Life Means So Much"
<br />U2 - Joshua Tree - "In God's Country"
<br />Martin Sexton - Black Sheep - "America the Beautiful"
<br />Orbital - The Beach Sndtrck - "Beached"
<br />Israel Kamakawiwoole - Meet Joe Black Sndtrck - "Somewhere Over the Rainbow/Wonderful World"
<br />Daniel Miller - n/a(no record yet! :) - "You Say"
<br />
<br />There's only 1 problem with this list: it wouldn't fit on 1 CD, but wouldn't completely fill two CD's either. So you can either add or take from this list as you please! Have fun and I hope I've introduced you to some new music, too...
<br />
<br />
<br />
