---
layout: page
title: "Facing the Disruptive Love of Christ"
date: 2024-08-21 11:33
---

The verses in John 6:56-69, where Jesus speaks of eating His flesh and drinking His blood, are some of the most jarring in the New Testament. His visceral and unsettling imagery left many of his followers grappling with disbelief and confusion. As a contemporary Christian, I’m able to interpret such readings with both the benefit and detriment of thousands of years of context. But if I ignore that context, if I don’t just wave away the obtuse and grotesque words He said in that moment, how do I interpret this scene and square it with all the other gospel scenes and teachings of Jesus?

One lens that I enjoy deploying is that of Jesus acting as a trickster figure like those elucidated by Lewis Hyde in his 1998 book Trickster Makes This World. According to Hyde, trickster stories “[leave] the listener not so much freed from all constraints as freed from their tyranny and therefore more flexible and open to change. The teller of the tale offers…open-ended symbols into which any listener can pour her own drama of transgression and containment and explore its possible resolutions...It is not so much that trickster unifies the soul as that his polytropic commerce puts its powers in touch with one another across their necessary divides.”

The trickster doesn’t just impart knowledge or doctrine; He disrupts. He challenges us to confront what we would rather ignore. In this scene, Jesus forces us to wrestle with the uncomfortable idea that abiding in Him is not a passive act. It’s a radical, all-encompassing union that demands everything from us, a union that transcends the merely intellectual and ventures into the realm of the visceral, the real, the lived experience of faith.

One of the central challenges of Christian life is the love for the Other—the people, ideas, cultures, and institutions that lie beyond our own experience, that challenge our sense of self and our understanding of the world. The Bible, philosophy, and psychoanalytic theory are all filled with stories and theories about how we cope with the Other and often suggest that real love is when we’re able to reach across the divides that separate us. That chasm is often fraught with trauma, prejudices learned below the level of consciousness, and simple ignorance. When Jesus puts on His trickster hat, He throws us into that divide. Instead of reading our autobiography into the text, our context permitting a wave of the hand and a shrug, He forces us to contend with it.

In John 6, Jesus doesn’t allow us the luxury of easy answers or comfortable interpretations. Instead, He pushes us to confront the raw, unsettling reality of what it means to follow Him, to love as He loves. He forces us to grapple with the messy, uncontainable nature of divine love. With this lens, his teaching isn’t just about the Eucharist or a theological point but is challenging us to confront what it means to love as He does—love that requires a willingness to engage with the uncomfortable, the unknown, the Other. This is the trickster’s gift: to break us open, to shatter our complacency, and to invite us into a love that is as challenging as it is transformative.
