
=== My_Life_01.doc ===

My Life

I’m alone. 

That’s the first thing you need to know.

I don’t know where this story is going to go, I don’t know where
it’ll end up. But this is the starting point. I live in a hole. I live
in a studio apartment I pay too much for. I don’t go into the kitchen,
it grosses me out too much. My crotch is constantly itching because it
is hot as hell here, and always humid, and your sweat, especially the
sweat that forms between your ball sack and your legs, it goes nowhere.
You’re wet all the time like you pissed your pants and your butt crack
and your shirt and your head all at the same time.

You should also know I’m drunk. And I smoke too much.

I used to have a life. But now I’m just your average Johnny Citizen.
George if you’re my mother and pissed off, but you are neither, so
it’s Johnny. Ok?

No not John or Jonathon. It’s Johnny. Yeah. Thanks.

I used to have a life. I used to have someone who loved me, but
somewhere along the line she decided she didn’t love me anymore. Only
problem was I had given up my whole life to be with her. I had given her
my whole life. My life revolved around her. But she decided she didn’t
need me anymore and now here I am. Sitting in my shit hole apartment
talking to you. Typing to you, that nonexistent imaginary person out
there somewhere who for some reason is still reading this shit.

I guess I will tell you stories.

So I had moved for her. Laid down my life and everything I knew. It
wasn’t really that big a deal. I enjoyed it. I thought I had freedom
to be myself. I thought she had accepted me long ago. I did like living
where we had gone. But, well, all that’s gone and so now I live in the
hot as hell shithole. And I’m ok with that.

But I’m alone. And I’m not so ok with that. I realized that I can
live anywhere, even a hot as hell shit hole, as long as there is someone
there to love me. I’m not so immature as to blame other people or
circumstances for my current condition. I did my share of sinning. I
took my situation for granted. But what I have learned, a good friend
put so well the other night: “I just want to love and be loved, is
that too much to ask?” Well, apparently it is. So fuck you God and
fuck you life. You just had to beat the shit out of me, didn’t you?

I don’t know what changed her mind about me. Maybe she found somebody
else, I don’t know. Maybe she just doesn’t need anybody anymore.
Maybe she is the opposite of me. No, actually, she is the opposite of
me. That’s why I love her so damn much. But she’s ok, apparently.
And I’m not. So don’t expect some story with a happy ending or where
you learn anything about how to cope with life. Life sucks. So there.

So I’ll just tell my stories. After I will take stock. After I will
sit alone in my shit hole and look around and look at the gun in my lap
and decide whether it is worth it. Decide if there are any stories worth
writing with my future. Or if she has just stolen all my future and
that’s that.

So that’s that.

So I took her for granted. Yeah, that’s true. Or did I feel abandoned?
I saw another woman. Couldn’t bring myself to sleep with her, although
now I wish I had, had enjoyed that moment of pure love, acceptance by
another person. It’s been a while since I enjoyed that. That’s all
I’m asking for, that’s all I want.

But anyway, I’m getting both ahead and behind myself. That’s not the
story I wanted to start with. I said I was going to start now and work
my way back. Well, I didn’t mean right now.

I remember the first time we fell in love. I told my friends, “She’s
not my type,” with such a look in my eyes they just laughed and said,
“Yep, she’s the one.” This was before I knew that my balls created
nothing of use, before I knew I was destined for the rubbish pile,
before I knew that my dreams were a joke and the world was out to get
me, and God was out to let it. This was before I knew she’d fall out
of love with me, she’d abandon me, she’d leave me for dead and never
feel one second of remorse.

“I just want to love and be loved, is that too much to ask?”

Apparently, my friend, the answer to that question is yes. Sorry if
that’s news to you or if it bums you out a bit.

Apparently my struggles were too much for her. Apparently she has it all
figured out. Apparently those who have it figured out are annoyed with
those who don’t. Apparently those who have it figured out can’t be
bothered with those still struggling to find their place in this fucked
up world. Apparently those who have figured it out can’t stand to be
around those who still think something is wrong with this world.

You know, war, injustice, poverty, depression, darkness, pride, greed.
Those are petty things you are better off not bothering yourself with.
Those are things for the weak to worry about. Those are things that just
get in the way. Success being the measure of all things and all, success
being money, power, and psychological well-being and all.

Success being money, power, and psychological well-being and all, and
money, power, and psychological well-being being pretty much
exclusionary to true love and all.

Sorry, now I’m just going off. Postulating. 

So let’s go back to that falling in love. She was beautiful. So
beautiful, and with this body that defined womanhood while not
succumbing to the crazy misappropriations we all see every night on the
television. She spoke with confidence, but back then so did I, and the
challenge we presented to each other only made us want each other more.
The passion between us was so intense we could feel it when we were only
in the same room with each other. Or at least I could. Still can. Of
course we haven’t been in the same room for a couple months now. And
whether she ever felt it is questionable at this point. But I guess you
would have to ask her.

I remember our first meeting.

“Hi, I’m Johnny.”

”I’m Mary.”

“Oh, like Jesus’ mother?”

“Huh?”

“Like Jesus’ mother, Mary.” I don’t know why I always repeat
really stupid remarks, or why I always have to bring up Jesus.

“Uh, sure.” Her voice trailed off and I knew I had fucked up
royally. What a great first impression. 

Hi I’m just meeting you and sure as hell I’m thinking about sleeping
with you already and the only thing I can mention is the one deity that
will be sure to quench any lustful thoughts you ever might have had for
me in the first place.

Of course lustful thoughts on her part probably had to be warmed up a
little bit first. I’m not exactly the spiciest fry on the block.

Somehow I later impressed her enough to at least make an impression. Why
she was with me in the first place, well now I know even less than I
knew back then. Maybe back then I thought God himself had ordained our
love, maybe she did too. I don’t know why else someone so set on being
with someone exactly like herself would have picked someone exactly the
opposite.

Extrovert. Introvert.

Good with numbers. Bad with numbers.

Good grades. Bad grades.

Figured out. Fucked up.

Success. Failure.

The list just goes on.

Well, we ended up together. I thought it was for good. Again, maybe she
thought so back then too. But these things, like everything else, tend
to change. And change quick, let me tell you.

It was never easy. It was always worth it. At least for me.

“All I want is to love and be loved. Is that too much to ask?”

 I remember she used to joke, or at least I thought it was a joke, when
people asked what our first year was like, she would tell this story on
how we disagreed on how to squeeze the toothpaste, and almost had to go
to separate tubes. But you know what happened already, don’t you? I
changed the way I squeezed the toothpaste. Heavily ironic, it was I who
was more anal retentive about how a toothpaste tube was squeezed than
her. Now I just squeeze the damn thing any way I want. 

I remember meeting her family, all of them, infinitely more than mine,
or at least that was true the at time. I loved them. I loved all of
them. And we didn’t even speak the same language. I mean, literally. I
still do love them. I don’t know if I could trust them again, after
all they’ve said about me, but I still love them. I imagine her
grandmother, alone right now, sleeping in a bed that for so many years
was warmed by the love of her life. That gives me some comfort. I love
that grandmother. I dream of seeing her again and hugging her and
telling her how much I love her, telling her that she is one of my
people--  HYPERLINK
"http://biblegateway.com/cgi-bin/bible?language=english&version=NIV&pass
age=matt+5%3A1-11&x=0&y=0"  poor , left with nothing but herself, just
waiting for her number to be called. Grandma and I, we have a lot in
common, actually. And we don’t have a common language between us.

I imagine her grandfather, dead, buried, and up in heaven, looking down
on her right now. I wonder what he must be thinking. 


=== My_Life_02.doc ===

Down Here

Mentioned: I live in a shithole.

The place stinks. It is a combination of the age of the building itself,
the number of single people and immigrants who have lived here, the
extreme funkiness of the kitchen. The place oozes dirt; it creates it.
The kitchen cabinets are old and wooden and shed their particled
existence constantly. They have been absorbing humidity mostly, but also
smoke and body odor and cockroach shit and condiment carelessness, for
years--decades even.

The carpet is industrial and rivals the sidewalk for gum spots. The
windows are as old as I am and their twisted metal frames rust and decay
with a slimy consistency. The corners grow cobwebs that would make a
haunted house jealous. The bathroom walls are embedded with hairs and
dead bugs of what origins I care not to know. The shower floor tile
lacks enough grouting to make it feel like the steel grate bridges over
the canals, and what it lacks in grout it makes up in spilled spackle
and paint globs from the shoddy between-tenant clean-up jobs.

And the mosquitoes. Oh yes, those.

Tonight on the way back from 7-11, the only establishment beyond Denny's
open all night in this sprawling suburbania, there was a nice pile of
dogshit on the sidewalk.

Grace, these days, is not having stepped in the shite the first time by,
when you didn't notice it.

One neighbor is an older man. He lives alone in a studio apartment the
same size as mine. I'm not sure of his story, but he has at least one
grown daughter. He has one friend who is nominally crazy--he limps
around slowly, has no teeth, and has an amazingly brilliant parrot on
his shoulder at times. He keeps a jungle of plants outside of his door.
Pretty but smelly and...and the mosquitoes. Oh yes, those.

Another neighbor, a few doors down, is some mystery recluse. Her
apartment smells like moth balls and she sleeps on cardboard. She comes
and goes shiftily and complains bitterly about everything. It is unclear
what she might do to pay the rent, but it is safe to say that it is not
"the world's oldest profession."

The neighbor on the other side used to be a freaky pedophile. He was
evicted, fortunately, but after he moved out they cleaned his apartment
and found pornographic Polaroids in with the kids' toys. One time he
opened his front door to retrieve his mail, totally buck naked. He
smoked incessantly.

Grace, these days, is that that is the only thing he and I have in
common.

The family that moved in after they'd cleaned his place of the smoke and
cum stains is a nice Latino family, three generations are living in
there I think, and I am so jealous. Immigrants and big, poor
families--they might not have much, but they sure as fuck know how to
stick together.

And that's kind of what it comes down to. Any place can be made into a
home. But a true home takes two. Alone, one can design their place how
they want without conflicting aesthetic advice, they can keep it as
clean or dirty as they want without anyone else complaining, they can
keep the hours they want, rising early or staying up late, without
disturbing anyone. But the house will still be only that. A home takes
love. It doesn't have to be between a man and a woman, it doesn't even
have to be romantic love, the "other person" doesn't even have to live
there, but people, not a person, make a home. The life of a home is
contained in auras bouncing off of each other. Love, frustration, kinky
sex, messy meals, obnoxious habits, conflicting opinions about the use
of the remote control--these are the things that form the energy of a
real home.

Grace, these days, are some drunken impersonations of this kind of
intimacy.

There aren't too many people in the world with whom one is able to have
true intimacy with. Fewer still are the ones you could trust with not
only just moments of such soul-assurance, but a lifetime...

We all walk this earth, and so few of us, really, are not aliens and
strangers here. We struggle, grope, and cry out for some connection to
something that is beyond this, yet it seems the more we fight off the
meanies, the more mutations they take on, the more they spread their
cancerous rot from across the seas to across the street to the yard to
the houseplants. Next thing you know the State is knocking on your door,
saying, "It's nobody's fault, but we have to burn your house down to
prevent the spread. No hard feelings, this kind of thing happens all the
time, everyone survives, best of luck in the future."

And like all those before us, we start over from nothing, hoping someday
to build again. Maybe we'll move to the desert where we think the spores
don't live. Maybe we'll spend our weekends spraying the grass with
poisons aimed at killing the fungus. Maybe we'll move into an urban
high-rise with tile floors we constantly scour and bleach.

Maybe we retreat into ourselves. Convince ourselves we're strong, that
we get along, that we were made for this world. We enjoy the attention
of acquaintances, the random, surface affections we pass off for true
intimacy. We take pleasure in coming "home" to a house without the
disarray of another human being's touch.

But in the end, to live a perfect life is to stop being human. The
ironic beauty of humanity is its almost masochistic drive to be
connected to itself in ways deeper than a casual drink, a political
conversation, a hilarious joke. It's desire to be one with itself, the
storm cloud desperately wanting to spin down a huge tornado, chaos be
damned.

Grace, these days, would be at least a toilet bowl, where the shit could
spin around together for a few seconds.


=== My_Life_03.doc ===

Over There

I've never had a more interesting four months. I've never had such
affectual summer, good or bad. It's hard to believe it was only four
months. It's hard to believe I've been back Over Here longer than I was
ever Over There.

Over There was the deal. It was the goal for ten long years.

"I'm not moving. I'm staying Right Here."

Those were the words I heard the first time I suggested, merely
suggested, that I might not want to live Over Here forever, that maybe
Somewhere Else might be more interesting, more conducive to our
actualization. 

"My parents are here. We're staying here."

Ok. No problem. Just a thought. Just an idea.

The deepest ironies. She's now Over There saying things like:

"I'm never living over there ever again."

...Over There being actually Over Here to me.

You follow?

I spent ten years trying to get out of Here, got four months Somewhere
Else Quite Suitable Thank You Very Much, and then I got conned, conned I
tell you, to leave and come Back Here.

Yeah God. This is me giving You and her the finger. See that? Yeah.

I had a lot of friends over there. When I left I said six weeks. See you
in six weeks. That was what I was tricked into thinking. That I would be
back in six weeks. I may never see them again. If I get to, it will be
with great effort on my part. They don't exactly have email or anything.

Some do have email, but they don't email me back. I'm like a hex now.
There is some national secret involving me. I'm an untouchable now.
Don't talk to Johnny. He's *hush hush hush* you know. I don't know it
it's because of the truth or because of lies, stories I haven't even
heard. Both are equally horrible, though, so in the end it doesn't
really make any difference.

...

There is this great story from towards the end of my stay. My life was
already crumbling all around me. I was too naïve to see the signs, but
in hindsight it is perfectly clear what was happening to me*.

*I was getting fucked over.

I had a show. I'm a graphic artist, you see. Why they call graphic
artists "graphic artists" is beyond me. Commercial whore might be a
better term for it, because we just draw whatever The Company Paying Us
wants us to draw. There is no artistry about it. You give me money, I
give you "graphic art" that has nothing to do with art. Real art doesn't
create money. Real art sucks you dry and leaves you dead in the gutter
to be remembered fondly in 100 years as a womanizing, globe-trotting,
gallivanting beautiful person. Not that your reputation in 100 years
does you any good while you're in the gutter right now.

So yes, I'm a commercial whore "artist," and I was lucky enough to have
some of my work actually shown in public in a non-commercial setting.
Some of it had already been used for adverts or whatever, some of it was
original material in the same vein.

I needed the work reproduced, so I asked around and got a recommendation
for a solo guy. I met with him and he seemed nice enough. We spoke a
verbal agreement and I got him the digital copies of the pieces and a
deposit. Looking back, maybe my Spidey-sense should have been going off,
but this is what cultural and language differences do--they leave you
ignorant, stupid, gullible. A target for everyone. 

As it turns out, even those closest to you.

Turns out the guy was like mafia jr.

When it came time to get the reproductions, things got interesting. I
had to meet the guy at a special location, and then when I arrived at
the special location it turned out I wasn't meeting with the guy
anymore, I was meeting with two super mafia jr. guys. They drove a white
Mercedes with alloy rims in a town where 1991 Golf is standard fare.

And the reproductions. They were shit. There is not other way to
describe them. I should have destroyed them right there on the spot so
that such crap versions of my work would not even exist.

Except I had already paid mafia jr. and his toady at this point. I had
no recourse whatsoever. This wasn't Wal-Mart. This was the mafia in a
foreign country where I didn't speak the language.

Turns out I had connections with mafia sr. Who knew? A friend of a
friend called mafia sr. and they showed up on the scene about the same
time I went back to return the goods.

In the end, the guy gave all the money back except the deposit. He
managed to wiggle his way away with that much, stuttering like crazy and
never looking in my eyes.

The show went on with much smaller, cheaper copies of the work I could
produce on my own. In the end, in light of everything else, it was No
Big Deal. In the end, in light of everything else, I still had a lot of
really great friends who supported me, who would have had the same
problems as I had with mafia jr. They just would have known to never go
with mafia jr. in the first place.

The last week I had Over There was possibly the best of the worst...I
had more beautifully meaningful conversations with true friends that
week than I had then entire 3.75 months before.

I've had to accept my fate Over Here. When I can't, I just drink until I
can't remember It. But the unique beauty of Over There and the friends I
may never see again will haunt me forever. Four months of the most
indelible movies inside your head.

Maybe I'll replay more movies for you. Maybe if I give them to you,
they'll leave me alone for a while. Until I figure out a new Over There
to dream about.

...

A friend was telling me today how she was cleaning out old papers,
throwing out letters from an old boyfriend who is a mutual acquaintance.


I said I wondered what happened to all the old portraits of us in the
apartment she still lives in. I said I wondered if she kept our
engagement picture up in the hall to the bedroom. I said I wondered if
he had to walk by that picture on his way to our bed.

My friend said she probly pitched it.

I imagine all these pictures of us in the bins behind the apartment
building. I imagine all the bums that scour those dumpsters finding our
pictures and vicariously reading our stories.

I imagine that place on that hallway wall, the picture not there long
enough to leave a mark, a clean square disrupting the discoloration. I
imagine a new picture there, something generic picked up from an artist
selling on a cobbled street of that historic town. No story behind it.
Just someone else's story, some other nation's, hanging on her wall.

A story we are spectator to. Not a story we wrote. A TV sitcom. A
romance novel. A life we choose to get away from the fact that reality
dictates that we live only one.

One thing about being shipped back Over Here with just a suitcase's
belongings is that I couldn't bring any memories with me. Not that there
aren't enough in my head to keep me busy, but there is at least very
little physical evidence.

While I miss the life I had built, starting from nothing, and continuing
to have nothing, has provided a freedom to cope that doesn't require
psychosis. It facilitates the brokenness that allows me to fall to my
knees, allows the stream of cool water flowing between my feet to come
into focus.

I miss some of the culture that I left behind, but I've been overjoyed
to find bits and pieces of it scattered throughout the landscape. Like
the rusted frame of an old car that you drove as a teen in the 50's
sitting in the middle of a wheat field in middle America, a song that I
own on an artifact held on the other side of the world plays now in the
pub where I pen these words. I can play this song on guitar, and have
many times, and tonight I learn how to play the ending of the song the
same way this artist does.

I make a mental note. I take a photograph. 

I take a photograph of the rusted frame to remind me of the time I drove
the brand new shiny black cruiser down the main street of my home town. 

And I wonder if any of those photographs of happy days, the ones that
may or may not be rotting in a foreign landfill many moons away, I
wonder if the bums who pick them up and hold them before their failing
eyes are taken back, far away, to a day when they held their beautiful
girl close to their side, and smiled

I miss Over There horribly. I see pictures of the city and tears well up
in my eyes. I read stories and my heart aches. I had just made Over
There my home when I was forced to leave. I thought I was going to be
coming back in six short weeks, but I will probably never return. I may
go back someday, to say a proper goodbye to a town that has my heart. It
is a town of mysterious beauty, culture, in which some amazing people
reside. But it is also a town that will chew you up and spit you out
like so much tobacco. People say it is cursed, that the land is destined
to be at war every decade, or ever-other decade...whatever. I would
agree that it is cursed, it was for me at least, but it is something
more obtuse than just the people's proclivity for killing each other.
There is a great paradox at work there, like it is the focus point of
the entire world's paradox, that between good and evil, light and
darkness, beauty and depravity.

If you are prepared, the good, light, and beauty are stunning. If you
are not prepared, the evil, darkness, and depravity will swallow you
whole.

Whenever I read stories about the last war that occurred there, I am
amazed that the entire population that were victimized by the horrors
would not have changed. I would think that after fighting for your
family's survival for years and years you would never dream of being
unfaithful to them, of abandoning them for some hot young thing that
crossed your path, that you would pursue another woman, or another man,
and leave what you fought so hard to preserve against a vile enemy
determined to destroy it. I would think that war would change you. But
apparently, for most, it didn't. It seems the decent people were decent
people before the war. The nasty people must have been nasty before,
too. Having a common enemy set to kill them probably lowered the
infidelity rate a bit, but as soon as that enemy left, it was back to
the status quo. 

Kind of like what happened to us. As long as we had a common battle--the
battle with the world that refused to accept us--we were unified. As
soon as that world embraced her, seduced her, and gave her the wealth,
success, and praise she so deserved, she forgot that we were a team. She
accomplished all that on her own, of course, and had no need for loyalty
or promises or love. 

Unfortunately, I am the idealist. I am the one the world will never
embrace. I will always be looking for those things that money can't buy,
success can't create, and adoration cannot fulfill. If she is truly
happy with what she has, and I have no doubt she is, then I am happy for
her. And I will continue this journey, alone or with another, the
journey that sees no end, knows no arrival.

There is no perfect place. There is no perfect family waiting at the end
of the jetway. There is no lover who says only the right things. 

The gene pool is fucked. The Beautiful People think they are superior,
but it all really just depends on where you set the bar. They might be
clearing that bar and you might be failing every time, but I have a
feeling that the bar we should be trying for is in a different stadium
altogether.

There is no perfect place. But Over There was pretty close.


=== My_Life_04.doc ===

There's a Travis song that asks, "How many hearts does it take to break
all the bombs that your mothers make?"

I imagine all these mothers in the bomb factories, sitting on the
missile assembly line, the bell ringing at five o'clock, going home to
lay bombs in the depths of their daughters' souls.

Or fathers in their sons'.

And unless someone steps on those mines early, they lay in wait for the
five month mark or the five year mark and then they spontaneously
explode.

I realized that she's just psychotic, not the psychotic that lands you
in jail, the psychotic that gets you elected president or makes you
millions.

Sometimes you can get so comfortable with those mines that when they
explode you think to yourself, "We need to build more bombs. We need to
lay more mines."

...

Before we got married, her dad told me, "She has the ability to just
move on. She can fail or lose something and just move on. That is why
she is going to be a success."

I remember thinking, "As long as she doesn't ever just move on from me
like it was a business deal."

I hate being prophetic like that.

I remember Tuesday she said she thought we could work things out.
Wednesday she said she wanted separation. The next Monday she said she
was leaving me. 

I thought, "She has the ability to just move on." His deep accent was
echoing in my head.

I should have realized then that it was over.

Because the worst part of any of this wasn't the fighting for her. It
was that fighting for her made me love her more than ever. It made me
look right past all the bombs she was lobbing at me, believing peace was
surely right around the corner. Surely these nations don't want to keep
seeing their sons come home in body bags. Surely the mothers will strike
at the missile factory in protest. 

...

I'm fascinated by the idea of authority. Just the concept--I personally
do not want any. Nor do I appreciate that authority over me. But that
people would actually want to be in authority is more than a little
queer to me.

Being in authority means you kill innocent people in the name of
whatever meta-theory your authority comes from. Being in authority means
you tell other people what to think, you guide innocent minds. Being in
authority means you lay more mines in the lands of this earth and in the
souls of its inhabitants than the UN or scores of psychoanalysts could
ever hope to remove.

The back of the T-shirt says, "I'm on the bomb squad: if you see me
running, try to keep up."

Being in authority means that when the day comes that you stop running,
that frightening reality that engulfs us all, sooner or later, my gut
tells me you are going to have a lot to be afraid of.

I'm particularly interested in the microcosm of authority that is the
family, and the curious times at which parents choose to be involved--to
exert their authority--in their offspring's life.

They are thoroughly involved up until some predetermined age, then stop
entirely.

They are absent up until some arbitrary age, then expect to be heard.

They nitpick during the unimportant transitions but refuse to become
involved during the life changing events.

They hire the babysitter that molests and rapes you as a child but kick
out the love of your life when you are a teen.

They will screen potential suitors with the proverbial moralistic
fine-toothed comb, but down the road, when their daughter wants to give
up on the whole monogamy, till-death-do-us-part thing, they will tacitly
shrug and nod their approval. 

They will lay mines their entire life and feign surprise when they
explode, be it in faraway lands or right up in their face.

They will be relieved to find that they explode in faraway lands.

...


=== My_Life_05.doc ===

The worst part isn't being completely broken-hearted; the best part
isn't being totally victorious, free, and confident in your decision.
Both evolve from purpose--one of saving things--or at least the default
meaning that arises from being at the very bottom--the other of ending
them once and for all. When you are a retched soul, bent over on the
floor sobbing most nights, so engulfed in darkness that light is forced
to come pay a visit, this is not the worst. When you are still confident
in your decision, happy to be free, enjoying the life of a single,
desirable woman, this is not the best.

The worst is after. After the horrid, physically-debilitating sobs and
depressions have lifted. When you hear a thousand voices telling you
that you need to get a grip, need to move on, need to earn a living,
need to stop spending all your time staring at the floor. When you do in
fact get a grip, most of the time anyway, you do move on, damn it, when
you get some work, and when you look up and notice the sun still shines,
still rises and sets like always.

Because the sun still rises and sets like always. And you're still
alone.

The other side of the coin, the happy to be free side, it never gets
better. This is as good as it gets. 

...

I don't know why I always have to think about her.

The new girls, they listen to decent music. They have reasonable
standards for clutter and cleanliness. They don't talk bad about anyone
or anything they come across. They're artists, creative people, who
enjoy the company of other creative, cluttered people. They actually
like my art. They don't mind my smoking; they know it is just a phase.
They have clear, smooth skin. They don't mind that I'm quiet, but I can
be totally honest with them without fear of rejection. They give amazing
blowjobs. They actually enjoy vaginal sex. 

They're single, not accountable to me or anyone else, but they're not
exposing me to sexually transmitted diseases. 

I was at the clinic and the guy taking my blood said, "Yeah, you gotta
wear that Jimmy hat."

I said, "Yeah, it's a complicated story."

They love me at my worst. Some impossible idea they have in their head?
What idea they have in their head? Who has those?

So why am I always thinking about her? Not her naggings about taking the
trash out or leaving anything, I mean anything, on the damned dining
room table. Not about how every night after going out with people she
would give her critical analysis of each and every personality. Not
about the nasty things she said about artists, myself included. Not
about her red, blotchy, scaly skin, her old and withered hands. Not
about her constant complaints about my lack of outgoingness. Not about
her lack of inclination towards any sexual activity beyond cunnilingus. 

Not about the fact that she decided she didn't want to be with me
anymore and wanted to be with other people. Not in that order.

No, I have to remember her smile. Her energy. Her laugh. I have to
remember farther back, to when she believed in me, even though later she
told me she had become "tired of faking it." I have to remember taking
her all over the world with me, crazy trips and stories from every
quadrant of the globe. I have to remember building a home, struggling
through certain suburban rites-of-passage that perhaps we were never
meant to achieve, doing our best from what we knew. I remember helping
each other towards our goals, our dreams. I remember knowing, after all
those years, just knowing so much about each other. I thought we were
entering that comfortable, not complacent, but comfortable period of
life--comfort in the knowledge that this other person has decided to
live this life with you, and you've made it quite a few years already.
You've proven the skeptics wrong.

I'm not some weird religious freak, I'm not a moralist, and I'm not
saying this didactically--I know there are exceptions, and maybe my case
will yet be proven to be one--but I just don't think that humans were
meant to be in lifelong commitments with more than one person, to break
those commitments once they've been made. There is something more there,
in that vow. More than just sexual or emotional intimacy. There is some
hidden aspect of our humanity, of our collective psychology, wrapped up
in those promises. 

It is one of the beautiful mysteries of humanity, that of two very
different people trying to build one life together for the rest of their
days on earth. It is the focused, microscopic, cellular version of what
humanity is doing, collectively, every minute of every day that we
continue as a distinct species in this universe. We live in this global
community, in our nations, in our neighborhoods, in our institutions of
choice. But that commitment to another person--I would use our modern,
western term of "marriage" but that word is so completely meaningless by
now--it is within that context that this curious state is at once the
most difficult and the most fulfilling. 


=== My_Life_06.doc ===

Well, you should have known I have my share of dirt.

If there was a hierarchy of sexual deviance, I was perched at the top.
Only thing with those hierarchies is, the ones that make them up tend to
completely decimate them in the privacy of their own lives.

It's the SAT's of moral relativism. Fornication is to fruit and toast as
adultery is to steak and eggs.

First of all, let me tell you about the job I got.

When you hear a thousand voices telling you that you need to get a grip,
need to move on, need to earn a living, need to stop spending all your
time staring at the floor? That's when you get a job at the porn shop.

I always had a problem with porn. Although thanks to my new job, I've
learned that it is really called Adult Entertainment.

I think it was just the depression, but sometime in the middle of all
this, about the time every last drop of hope was lost, I lost all my
interest in Adult Entertainment.

That's when I got the job at the porn shop.

Clinton-Lewinsky is to lawn chairs as Enron-Haliburton is to Lay-z-boy
recliners.

Before, I was somehow drawn to, and obviously turned on by, the whole we
want you oh yeah we want you please fuck our two dimensional brains out.

I wonder if they'll think I'm calling them stupid with that sentence or
if they'll get the joke.

Because they're obviously smart. And fucking brilliant actors. My use of
the word fuck is going to be a pun every time here, isn't it?

At any rate, it is difficult to even remember back to those days. I'm
trying to remember, did it appeal to me on some psychological level? Or
did I really just need to get my rocks off every day? Or did getting my
rocks off every day appeal to me on some psychological level?

Still, there is that time, here and again, when you just think to
yourself, Damn I want to watch two average straight blonde women pretend
to be getting themselves off.

And that's when you make a midnight trip to the 'ol porn shop.

And that's when you see the kind of guy that works at the porn shop.

Selling porn for a living is to a sip of green tea as fucking the
government employee buying your wares is to the sludge on the bottom of
a truck stop coffee pot.

And that's when you think to yourself, This is it. This is the lowest
position on any kind of social totem pole. The guys making top dollar
sweating their asses off pouring asphalt out on the freeway--they have
it good! This guy is making minimum wage working the graveyard shift
selling smut to the dirtiest old men this world has ever seen.

And that's when you think to yourself, This is the perfect job for me.

So here I sit. 

It's a small building, in the end. You would've never known the way it
caught your attention every time you drove by it for the last 10 years.
But it is pretty small. On the far wall are the toys--just a small
collection of rubber dildos--from tiny little ones for the guy that
occasionally likes to get pegged, to the Hey that's kinda normal size,
to the Oh My God That Thing Would Split Open A Horse--and vibrators,
pulsating pussies, a few other items I still don't know what the hell
they are for.

The middle of the shop is dominated by the racks of magazines,
everything any fetish freak would ever need to scratch that horny itch
embedded deep in their only occasionally emerging subconscious. Feet,
hands, hairy, shaved, big butt, no butt, long legs, midgets, dick, tits,
dick and tits, paper bag over the head, tied up, beaten, looking like
they're just about to beat you, bleeding, milking, pissing, shitting,
just about to give birth, having just given birth, extra limbs, missing
limbs, biting, no teeth, smoking, spitting, sucking, tattooed, pierced,
young, old as dirt, rolling in the dirt, rolling in the peanut butter,
eating the peanut butter out of lambskin condoms sticking out of someone
else's...well, you get the idea.

The videos are pretty much the same thing, although most of those are
just people having a lot of sex and pretending to enjoy it.

Fantasizing about sex with someone new is to Budweiser as actually
having sex with someone new is to Guinness. 

A couple of times I've seen these documentaries on porn stars and the
porn industry, and I've thought to myself, How do those people do that?
Are they able to have real sex after all that fake sex? Doesn't getting
the shit pounded out of you three, four times a day, five days a week,
doesn't that just fuck with your body and your head?

I mean, yeah, we just fuck with or fuck up or use just plain fucked as a
descriptor for when something is, well, fucked.

I wonder if these porn stars imagine the kind of guys that buy their
shit. Because, really, until you've worked the twelve-to-eight a.m.
shift at the adult bookstore in my town, you can't imagine.

A guy with no shoes, overalls, one tooth, with about a week's worth of
dirt stuck to his face. Getting a booth for ten minutes.

Oh I almost forgot: the booths.

Oh I almost forgot: the one job that is lower than working the counter
at the porn shop, is working the booths. Not much to it, really--take
the money, open the booth, clean the booth, repeat. Not much to it,
really, as long as you don't think about what you're cleaning up during
the cleaning part.

Case in point: overall boy. It wouldn't even be the white stuff that
would freak you out, stepping into the booth after his ten minutes.

The normal looking trucker guy, trucker hat and all. Comes in. Looks at
the dildos--the big ones--for about fifteen minutes. Then gets a booth.
I don't want to know what movie he picked out.

The old guys. This is where the money is. These dudes, anywhere from
forty to eighty, slacks and oxfords, mid-sized luxury sedans, gold
chain, Rolex, short cropped hair. This is the guy that sold you your
minivan this afternoon. This is the guy that convinced you to add
another one hundred thousand dollars to your life insurance plan
yesterday. This is the guy you voted for in the last mayoral election.
This is the guy who decided that your neighborhood needed a fifth
identical coffee franchise.

This is the guy who is counseling your children. This is the guy reading
Bible stories to your kids on Sunday morning.

This is the sweet old man two doors down who walks his dog at twelve
noon every day and brought you key lime pie last July forth. 

This is your dad, and your granddad, and your uncle, and your brother,
and your boyfriend, and your husband. And yours, and yours, and yours,
and yours.

Your pastor being a bad parent is to ABBA as your pastor fucking the
church secretary is to Alice Cooper.

They say it is a slippery slope, that porn leads to chat rooms, which
leads to affairs, which leads to swingers clubs, which leads to
homosexuality, which leads to AIDS, which leads to murder, which leads
to serial murder, which leads to cannibalism, which leads to gay
marriage, which leads to the End Of The World As We Know It.

But I'm not so sure. Your boyfriend and father and pastor and insurance
agent and barista and car salesman are in every week. Every week, like
clockwork. Like a drug deal they lay their cash on the table folded in
half or thirds or crumpled up in a little ball, and they leave with
their goods, fresh needles for hungry veins, stimulation for forgotten
penises, relief for lifetimes of frustration. 

And I've seen people skip the whole horrible porn step and jump straight
to the affairs, straight to the swingers clubs, straight to the murder.

I have to drive by the biggest swingers club in town on my way home from
work every day. And no matter what shift I've worked, no matter what
time I'm driving by Jenny's Jetty, the parking lot is packed. You can't
even see the entire parking lot--they have an entire lot out back for
those that wish to be more discreet--Is that the Johnson's blue Caravan?
But more often than not I see one of a handful of vehicles parked
prominently out in front of the street. I have a huge white truck and I
want the world to know that I'm swingin'. 

And I'm just wondering, Who is that guy?

And that's when you think to yourself, That is it. That is the lowest
position on any kind of social totem pole--whoever has to clean up
swingers clubs.

When you hear a thousand voices telling you that you need to get a grip,
need to move on, need to earn a living, need to stop spending all your
time staring at the floor? That's when you spend some of your hard
earned cash on company product.

And I go home, and I end up lying in the middle of the floor with the
lights off, the slightest hint of dawn creeping up from the horizon,
that sun that will wipe all the night's discretions clean. And the
useless camel-toed blondes with their legs sticking up in the air get
thrown, lonely in the corner, and I curl up with my bottle of syrup of
ipecac and have a liquid release of a different kind. 

Betraying is to confession as betrayed is to bulimia.

I know that confessing all this doesn't help any. It's not going to
drive the demons away, screaming bloody murder at my honesty. It doesn't
make me a better person for being able to fess up to my weaknesses. It
doesn't make me clean to point out the dirt all over my hands.

All it does is drag it out of that shadowy corner and into the light.
That's it. 

It just makes everything more ambiguous than ever. Particularly for me:
here's my shit, we all know about it now, and here I am, still. Still
the same person.

Last summer I had a lover. Well, almost, and I guess compared to her
lover it doesn't quite count. But it does.

I met her--my other person, I mean, and ok, I guess I might as well tell
you her name, it's Debbie--very unexpectedly on the public
transportation system of another town I was in the habit of visiting. It
was my favorite town, and I enjoyed traveling about it without a car,
soaking in the diversity that walked its streets. She asked me for
direction concerning the oncoming train, if it would be making a stop,
her stop. Normally a strange woman of her beauty approaching me in
public would send me into a small anxiety attack, and I would answer her
question with a little fuss as possible and go back to my life. But this
time I struck up conversation after explaining that the train would
indeed be taking a short break at her stop. I don't know if it was the
fact that I had already been drinking that night, or fate, or that I had
become socially emboldened by years with just such a person in my life.
I asked her where she was from, and oddly enough she was from the same
place as Mary. Why at this point I did not say, "Oh, my wife is from
there too," is beyond me. I just continued the conversation as if I was
some random single traveler happening upon a chance train car.

It also happened that I was getting off the same stop.

Why I didn't then say, "Well, have a nice day," and walk to my temporary
residence is beyond me.

I followed her, quite sheepishly, it was late and my excuse was that I
wanted to make sure a nice girl from an area I had some vested interest
made it home ok. She stopped to buy some vegetables at a small local
market and as I stood there waiting my conscience was like a mantra, "Go
home. Just go home. Go home..."

I walked her home and, honestly, you'll think I'm lying here, I was
about to go home, when she asked me if I wanted to go to a local club. I
said, "Sure." She said she'd just be a minute, and as I waiting outside
the mantra continued. I waited for many minutes and with each minute the
mantra got louder. I began to rise and walk away a few times, but
despite the fact that it seemed as though I was getting stood up on this
spontaneous date, I couldn't bear to just disappear into the night like
that. Just about the time I was done waiting, though, and was getting up
to leave, she came back out of her house and we walked to the club.

At the club I got many more drinks in me and we danced, rather
innocently at first, but after a couple of hours, very much not
innocently. It was the first time I had kissed anyone else in over seven
years at least. I was immensely curious what it would be like.

It was strange and took some getting used to.

It wasn't really her lips that intrigued me, it was her form--tall,
thin, a long neck and legs that seemed to go on forever. I enjoyed my
weekend of new romance without ever revealing that I was legally and
spiritually bound to another. There were beautiful moments of
expectation and surprise, of living in a moment with another person as
if there was nothing else before or after, as if time itself ceased to
exist outside the realm of our moments together. As if life itself
ceased to exist outside the realm of our time together.

Which, of course, it didn't.

Of course things at home were not the same after that moment--what I saw
as perfections in Debbie shown the brightest spotlight in what I saw as
imperfections in Her. I was still to proud, foolish and unbroken to
realize that "perfect" and "imperfect" and one in the same. I was still
too young at life to realize that no such things exist but in the eyes
of the one making the judgment. And judgments, as with eyes, change with
the weather, change faster than day to night. They come and go and come
back around with more speed than greyhounds at the track or soccer
players up and down a field of play.

I told Debbie via email that I wasn't single and expected that to be
that, she to run from me, me being one of those guys, the kind of guys I
hated, never wanted to be, and now, hate again. But she didn't. She
didn't seem to be very troubled by the entire circumstance.

We continued communicating by email and instant messenger, and all those
perfect things grew in the vast petri dish of my imagination. I devised
many schemes for how to end up with Debbie. I imagined being able to
wake up next to her. I imagined being loved for who I was and not for
who I was expected to be. I imagined beautiful amazon children. 

At one point I had another opportunity to see Debbie, and she begin to
make arrangements for us to spend a weekend away in the country. I
thought about just getting on a train and saying that I was going to go
explore for a week or two, but in the end it wasn't lack of plausible
stories that kept me from the meeting, it was sex. I knew that if we met
in neutral territory, we would have sex, and I couldn't bring myself to
take things that far. I wrote her and told her exactly that, and she
seemed disappointed but nonplussed as always. 

If I had known that Mary was already stoofing her lover at that point, I
may have had different feelings about the matter. But I digress.

I got to see her one more time, for an afternoon on my way through town.
It was beautiful. The weather was perfectly cool and we lounged on a
blanket in a nearby park, cuddling and kissing. "This is heaven for me,"
I said, and I wasn't kidding. My time away with her was like a canceling
agent to my real life, which by that point had become so putrid any and
all escapes were welcome. Those few hours in the city with a beautiful
woman who actually seemed to like me for who I was were a fantastic
oasis in my disturbed life.

But then, you only need an oasis when you've managed to get yourself
into a desert to begin with.

Very soon after that trip Mary told me things were to be over between
us, and it was like a drop of acid in my petri dish. I realized I was
being very stupid. The thought of losing Her was horrific, and I stepped
into high gear--I wrote Debbie and told her things, whatever they were,
were over between us, and that I was to either win back Mary or be
alone.

Again, I wonder if I would have behaved differently had I known, but it
useless speculation at this point. I've either reaped what I've sown, or
just had bad luck, or on the outside been a not-so-blameless victim.

People don't cry when the town bully is murdered. You can't feel too bad
when the trust-fund kid gets ripped off. Judges tend to sentence with
more cynicism when the rape victim is a porn star. 

And so it goes with me. I don't know if I am telling you this so you
won't feel so sorry for me, or I won't feel so sorry for myself. I think
I just want everything to be out there. I want there to be context. I
want there to be truth.

I know that confessing all this doesn't help any. It's not going to
drive the demons away, screaming bloody murder at my honesty. It doesn't
make me a better person for being able to fess up to my weaknesses. It
doesn't make me clean to point out the dirt all over my hands.

All it does is drag it out of that shadowy corner and into the light.
That's it. 

It just makes everything more ambiguous than ever. Particularly for me:
here's my shit, we all know about it now, and here I am, still. Still
the same person.

Am I the same person, still?


=== My_Life_07.doc ===

My life does not vignette to show you how happy I am.

She says she's happier than she's ever been. She says she could have
become this happy, this actualized, five years ago, had it not been for
me. She says all I brought her was ill health and a barren womb.

And I know her well enough to see that she probably is happier than
she's ever been. She has the rapt attention of many men, the occasional
affection of whomever she picks. She has money and affluence. She has
power and status. She has abundant leisure time. She lives in a culture
much like the one she grew up in, those good memories, and not much like
this one, bad memories.

She has every skill she needs to live and succeed in her surroundings.
Language, numbers, organization, good looks, youth. She is at the
pinnacle of her existence, and as such, had no place in either her life,
heart, or mind for me. She is complete. "I don't need anything. Not even
God." Those were her exact words.

And I'm jealous. I'm jealous of her victory in my brokenness. I'm
jealous of her completeness in my lack. I'm jealous of her success in my
failure. I'm jealous of her wealth in my poverty. I'm jealous of her
affections in my solitude. I'm jealous of her simple world in my chaos.

My life does not vignette for the benefit of your warm fuzzies.

And then I think, maybe being totally perfect isn't all it's cracked up
to be. Maybe there is a fear that comes late at night, on a rare night
alone, in the dark of a cold winter after the city has quieted its daily
celebration. Maybe there is a fear that it might not last. Maybe there
is a knowledge of terror, of that sun of success and comfort and ease
making its way towards the horizon. Maybe there is an uncertainty of how
long the ensuing night will last. A lack of experience of how long that
closest star will be pointed at the other side of the world. 

Or maybe it's because that sun has already made a trip around. Darkness
had already visited a life, and that life decided during the night that
the stars were not to be trusted. It was the longest night of her
existence, and she swore in the middle of cold, early morning hours that
if the sun ever came up again, she would revel in it, full of spite for
whoever or whatever sent it back across the sky. They were not to be
trusted. They were not to be thanked.

And then I think, this night is beautiful. The stars form patterns
against the haze of the city. A candle casts subtle tones over the pages
of a book. The silence allows other voices to be heard.

The pain allows for the pleasure. The loneliness teaches what affection
is. The darkness reminds us that without the light we bump our knees on
countless coffee table corners.

We can't pretend that the day will last forever. We can't force the dawn
with our anger and betrayal. 

We can live. We can learn. We can accept our fates of suffering, and if
we are lucky, that suffering will teach us how not to force the sun to
set on other lives sharing this universe with us.

My life does not vignette to make you see how perfect I am.

It's funny how movies, like lives, have certain characteristics. Action
films lack dialogue. Dramatic films lack action. Comedies lack plot and
great plots lack humor.

The best, and most distinctive, category, however, is the porn film. The
out-of-focus zooms, the ADR sound--unintentional imperfections that
simply became part of a genre. 

When guys come into the shop I wonder if they, like me, can't help but
imagine the cast of middle-aged actors in plaid sweaters, khakis, and
loafers on a soundstage in southern California moaning away the audio
track to a million porn films. 

Oo oo oo oo yeah.

I find it strangely hilarious that kung-fu and porn share the same
characteristic of entirely ADR'd sound. I wonder if the discontinuity
between what we hear and how we see the actors' mouths move somehow
compensates for the discontinuity of seeing people brutalized--be it
violently or sexually--for our pleasure.

After working in the shop for a few weeks I began fantasizing about
making a porno with a comical soundtrack, or maybe doing the Mystery
Science Theater of porno, and during the sex scenes we would make
disgusting noises and play with a children's keyboard.
Tink-tink-tink-riiiinnng-plop-faaaaaarrrrt Oh Yeah!

My live does not vignette to show you how big my dick is.

 Automated Dialog Replacement


=== My_Life_08.doc ===

My girlfriend is a middle-aged blonde who works at Denny's. A couple
days a week she'll work the second shift and I'll work the graveyard, or
vice versa, and she'll come hang out at the porn shop after work, or
I'll come hang out at Denny's. Either way we enjoy watching the freaks
come in and out of our respective places of work. Sometimes they are the
same freaks, and we exchange knowing looks that surround the silent
knowledge of our secret lives.

I like Denny's. Lots of interesting characters there during
graveyard. It's like the bus station, only with waitresses. Sticky
floors, ripped nylon seats, people puking and passed out, bad coffee.

Last night at Denny's I couldn't help lusting over this party girl who
came in at 3:00 a.m. from a night out at the clubs. She was of some
middle-Asian decent and had the most amazing legs I've ever seen
sticking out of a perfectly-lengthed skirt. I didn't have the heart to
tell my girl, and tried not to let on when she came by my table to hang
out between fetching coffee for her patrons. But it almost made me want
to make another trip out to the shop.

I also don't have the heart to tell her that I'm still in love with Her.
I tell her I love her, because she is so in love with me, but honestly I
just don't know if I still know how to love. I'm haunted by Her, and it
is strange for it to be so completely over and still be in love with
Her. Especially when someone new loves me so much.

My girlfriend's father was a priest in the Catholic church before he
resigned and started a family. About fifteen years later he was
arrested, tried and convicted as the famous Murder Hill Strangler. Turns
out he was a serial killer during his tenure at the Church. Possibly
after as well, although certainly at a lesser rate, for they never found
any bodies, nor did he confess to any murders that might have occurred
after that time period. But thirty-seven in ten years seemed plenty to
the courts, and he avoided death row only by agreeing to lead
investigators to the gravesites of the missing girls. Turns out they
probably could have found them themselves with just a little
forethought--after the first ten or so he started disposing of the
bodies on the church grounds, under fresh graves out in the graveyard or
under a secret corner of the basement that still had a dirt floor.

He was actually finally busted when they had to exhume a twenty year old
grave, in connection to an unrelated investigation, and found an
additional rotting corpse laying on top of the coffin. That narrowed the
suspect list, and caused enough of a media stir, to merit a re-opening
of the case.

Just in case you were living under a rock during that time, and didn't
watch any one of the various TV specials on his exploits, I will give
you some details--he had a thing for amputees, and the first four
victims were all as such. But soon his lust for armless women could not
be satiated by those already missing appendages, so after capturing one
of his fully-limbed victims he would sedate them heavily and carefully
remove their arms. He would then rape them repeatedly until they
invariably woke from their anesthesia. At that point he would choke them
with fishing line, or a piece of cloth, or, it turns out, his clerical
collar, until they quieted down into that eternal rest, all the while
raping them one last time.

Strangely enough, he actually performed the funerals for two of his own
victims.

Closed casket. 

Empty casket, in fact.

Ashes to ashes, dust to dust. I know where your daughter is buried and
in twenty year's time DNA testing on the semen inside her will put me in
jail for good.

The thing I don't get is how he went from that to family man. I never
met him, never will, unless some perverse curiosity drives me to a jail
across the state, but I can't imagine--all the friends and neighbors who
shared a meal with him, shook his hand, sat on a community board or
committee with him. And his wife, who shared a life and raised a
daughter with him...for fifteen years, at least.

She was actually an amputee. She has a false left arm--these days,
anyway. She fell for him because he loved her the way she was, told her
she was beautiful and didn't need to hide the fact with a prosthetic.
It's almost as if he was just dating the other girls, and finally found
The One. 

He found The One and stopped killing. I found The One and was killed.
Interesting.

Her mom ended up moving out to the country about four states over. My
girlfriend talks to her on the phone about once a week. She pretends
like everything is fine, but Natasha--that's my girlfriend--knows her
mom’s a fucking wreck who's going to stuff it until the day she dies.

Natasha, on the other hand, has nightmares, one every-other night, like
clockwork. She's a victim, breathing her last as a nameless, faceless
stranger pounds away at her in the dark, dusty basement of a midtown
church.

They named their daughter Natasha! Not some silly name, but a cool name
that resonates with culture and international mystique. Turns out,
victim number twelve, seven years before Natasha was born, was also
named Natasha. Of course it is coincidence, he never knew the names and
hardly remembered the faces of his victims.

Neither Natasha nor her mother have ever seen a psychotherapist for
their troubles, despite the fact that both the State and a fund
initiated by the families of the victims offered to provide it for them.
They never had health insurance in their lives, and so it simply never
occurred to them to seek any outside help for their problems. 

They just work at Denny's and live in the country, respectively. 

But yeah, the strangest thing, still, to me, is that he could just stop
and begin living a normal life again. He's sixty now. It's like he lived
a perfectly normal life, except for ten years somewhere in the middle.
It's like he lived a perfectly normal life, except that in his twenties,
instead of discovering alcohol or drugs or promiscuous sex, he
discovered murder and necrophilia. And just like perfectly normal lives
that give up drugs and sex with multiple partners and scales the alcohol
down to wine on the weekends, he gave up on the murder and sex with
multiple corpses and scaled the alcohol down to wine on the weekends.

It's just somewhere in the middle he became a psychopath.

Kinda informs my life a little. 

Kind informs most politician's and CEO's lives a little.

Kinda informs Her life a little.

I wonder sometimes if we are all destined to be our parents. Sons their
fathers, daughters their mothers, sometimes daughters their fathers and
sons their mothers.

She enjoys being her father. It gives a lot of leeway on the truth, and
on what's right and wrong. It gives a lot of credit to getting rich at
whatever cost, to being esteemed in the eyes of others whatever you have
to say. She told me it was a good way to be. I suggested maybe that
wasn't exactly the case. 

Interestingly, my being like my father was a constant tool in her
arsenal. And she was usually right. It was an amazing jab of guilt to be
told, and to realize, that I was being like him. 

Are we all just destined to continue the sins of our father? How do we
put a stop to the cycle? How many generations of my family have been
assholes? How many generations of her family have been liars?

I want to stop the cycle, and I am pretty hopeful that this year has
forced it. My entire world has stopped and with it all the prior habits
and ways of being. New habits have begun, some good, most bad, and,
interestingly, old life things have begun to creep back in. Not prior
life, old life. I gave up my old life when my prior life started six
years ago. I just left it and started what was then my new life. This
new-new life, I don't know what to call it, because life has yet to
begin again, the world has not yet begun to turn again for me, it gets
things out of the old life, it's losing things from my prior life.

I bought the kind of bread my mother used to make my grade-school lunch
sandwiches with. When I resealed it I sucked all the air out of the bag,
made the thin plastic stick the bread, like my mother does every time
she puts the bread away. Yesterday, I started drinking my coffee black
again. One sugar. Last week I listened to a record that instantly
transported me back to the ninth grade. It was wonderful. To know that
innocence again. I wouldn't trade the years of drama she brought to me,
or the change that drama wrought, but I do long for a little peace with
the world, a little peace with life.

But.

Alas.

That is all she wanted too, and with me and my ideals around that was
never going to happen. So better to win in the world than with the soul.
Sometimes that's the only way to get some quiet for one's mind.

I would take a year. Just a year off. A year free of questions, a year
free from struggle. Then we can go back to normal, back to ideals, back
to truth.

Just a year of a lie. A nice, peaceful, beautiful lie.

Sometimes I wonder if I will regress again, sometime in the future,
sometime with Natasha. Whenever I snap at her or get frustrated I start
to see it again. Her mere presence means that the world is starting to
turn again, and with that gravity comes the pull of heredity, of old
habits, of engrained ways of being. But I honestly think I'm better.
When I start to feel frustrated I say, "I'm getting frustrated by/with
[blank]," and immediately the frustration dims.

But I'm scared of another Debbie coming along. I'm scared that my war
hasn't taught me my lesson, that after living through it I will just go
back to the person I was before, that I will not have taken this time
while my world stopped turning to take stock and allow the darkness to
do its work in me. To say I will never do that to another human being
again. To say I will always be honest and faithful. To say I will not
allow things to pass without expressing them, will not sweep dirt under
the rug until it no longer lays flat and causes you to trip time and
again on your way through the hall.

This is all just a long-winded version of a cliché.

I just hope I can leave the bad behind, and embrace the good.

I just hope I can tell the bad from the good.

Sometimes I wonder about Natasha, if there is any of her father in her.
And then I look at her and I realize there is no way in hell. It makes
me wonder if these things just build and build until, finally, one
generation snaps, one nation snaps, one world snaps. And then it all
starts over again from nothing. Natasha has nothing. And it is a
beautiful thing.

...

The rest of this will be about the good. The good from my old life, my
previous life, and my new-yet-to-begin life.

I have nightmares every night now, dreams with bizarre storylines but
always featuring the same two main characters: me and her. It started
out with only one every few nights, but lately I've picked up from and
fallen into a subconscious competition with Natasha, because I've been
having two a night like clockwork. The first one wakes me up early and I
end up going back to sleep. This is normally the worst of the two and I
have thankfully been unable to remember this particular segment of the
nightmare twofer. The second dream wakes me up again, usually one to two
hours later. This time I get up for good, and the very oddness of the
nightmare's plot usually keeps me freaked out for some time. 

I clench my teeth when I sleep now. I've been doing it for a while, but
now it's getting quite pronounced. When I wake up in the morning--from
my second nightmare--my teeth are loose. It takes the rest of the day
for them to feel normal again. I can't afford to go see anyone about it.
I imagine my teeth worn down to little stubs, me still grinding away all
night long as she and I feature in my own personal Friday the 13th
series.

...

I have this friend, Kara. She's this cool artsy type who really knows
how to dress, has her own porn collection, although apparently she
doesn't frequent my porn shop, she's into music and smokes a lot and in
general is into the same kind of bullshit personal narratives. And she's
also already been married and divorced. 

The hilarious part about Kara and her smoking and drinking and her
divorced fine ass is she comes from this hyper-conservative family.

I wouldn't say her mother is conservative, but she doesn't use her turn
signals so as to save battery.

Her dad is a successful businessman. Every time I hear about him I
imagine Dustin Hoffman's father in The Graduate. "What are your
plans...daughter? ...What are you doing?"

I'm lying here in the pool.

I wouldn't say he's a liar, but he won't drive his SUV on dirt.

He was a pastor at the local megachurch, the same one where my
father-in-law is a deacon, until he was busted for having a ten-year
long affair with one of the church secretaries.

I wouldn't say his wife is conservative, but she didn't leave him.

Of course, according to Kara, half the staff of that church are having
affairs with the other half. 

You think half the staff are women?

Ha.

I wouldn't say her mom is conservative, but her idea of escape is a four
hour trip to the supermarket.

Needless to say Kara's folks don't know about the smoking or drinking or
porn collection or bullshit personal narratives.

...

So last night's nightmare, the second one, the one I can remember and
the one this morning's coffee can't seem to clean out of my brain...it,
like most of the recent ones, has Mary and I back together in some
strange, freakshow way. The theme is consistent: we're not quite back
together, but she's making like we could be and I'm torn, trying to get
back together but constantly put off by her weird antics. Antics is an
interesting choice of word.

We were in this large concrete socialist/Bauhaus building that looked
like a school but were residences. I lived in a hole not unlike the one
I live in now, but with more style. That was probably the best part of
the dream. There were long outdoor corridors and large courtyards, and
it was pouring down rain. Mary and I were talking but every so often she
would instantly be in a different part of the corridor and I would have
to run to catch up to her. I would say, "Hey, I thought we were
talking," and she would just shrug her shoulders and give me that look
only a woman can give.

Towards the end of the dream she really started fucking with me. I can't
remember exactly what was going on but that I was getting progressively
more hurt with each moment. She kept disappearing and reappearing and
telling me to get lost. Finally I got within a couple feet and said,
"You are a witch, aren't you?" 

She said, "Very good, Johnny."

I said, "Well then I rebuke you in the name of Jesus," and grabbed her
by the arm. She kind of laughed under her breath but didn't disappear.

But by that time it wasn't Mary anymore. It was, in the sense that it
was the same character as in earlier parts of the dream, a character
who, to be fair, wasn't exactly like Mary to begin with, but the weird
part was, at the end of the dream, she looked exactly like Kara.

There is this couple at Denny's all the time, and from what I can make
of them, the guy is Kara's dad. I just don't get what the attraction is.
He is a very regular old overweight guy. He's a nondescript businessman,
although he can afford things. She is a fairly young professional
looking blonde woman.

I haven't had the heart to tell Kara: I figure she either already knows,
or I could be wrong. Either way, it's not worth it.

I just don't get it. Car salesmen, middle managers, cruise ship
directors? How is it these guys score these extra-marital women?

I was telling Natasha: they're greasy.

Then Natasha reminds me that only greasy guys would do something like
that.

Then I remember I was greasy.

When grease burns, first it creates huge clouds of horrid-smelling
smoke, then it leaves a thick black crust behind. The smoke will set off
fire alarms and make the baby cry; but if you open the windows and crank
up the fan on the air conditioning, it will go away. The carbonic
residue will stain and reach a rock-like consistency; but if you scrub
the pan with enough soap and steel wool, that grease crust will become
history.

I feel like I've been put in the sink to soak for a while.

The funny thing is, Kara's dad and his lover pray all the time. They
hold hands across the table and she shuts her eyes and he prays. I don't
know about what--about her job, about her mother, about her elective
surgery--I really don't know. But they pray. 

I can only assume his sensitive spiritual side is what attracted her in
the first place.


=== My_Life_09.doc ===

I just realized that today is our six year anniversary, and our last.
Might this account for my general funk of the last few days?

It will be a while before I refer to her as my "ex" with the enthusiasm
with which she has attributed me with that moniker. Besides, I
determined some time ago that a simple "Mary" would do just fine. 

I love you, Mary. I probably will for some time yet.

Happy Anniversary.

I remember one year we spent our Anniversary in New Zealand. I had some
work there with some amazing people, people I'll never forget, people
who had an amazing impact on my life.

I remember the tortuously long flight. Mary said she'd never go on a
flight that long again. She was suffering then, and I remember the joy
of being in that beautiful place was cut against that fact. I felt so
helpless against her pain. 

I was so happy to be in that place with her, she with the freedom to
explore during the day, we taking long walks and slow dinners at night
with a lush bottle of local wine.

It was that trip that we found out she was allergic to alcohol, that she
was allergic to just about everything. 

She told me in the end that it was me she was allergic to. That I had
caused her suffering with my mere presence. She's better now that I'm
not around.

I remember somebody, a doctor I think, once joked that maybe it was me
she was allergic to. I laughed nervously. You can't really be allergic
to another person, can you?

Can you?

I wonder what she'll do with the pages of her memory books. I wonder
what she'll remember about New Zealand and Israel and Italy and Europe
and New York and Boston and Washington and California. I wonder if I'll
just become a blur, like a portion of the camera lens on all those
cameras was fingerprinted. The spot where my face went. 

My thoughts are like a fingerprint. An impressionistic painting. I don't
have any memory books. I have my fragmented remembrances. I have a few
sentences that inadequately describe a million blurry feelings of a
hundred soft souls, people that knew us together, people that will never
know us apart.

I wonder if she'll remember "that guy that made her sick," or "that guy
I wasted five years with," or "that guy I happened to be in all these
places with." I wonder what her kids will ask her when they find those
pages, dusty and faded in the attic.

Or maybe those pages are already rotting in the trash somewhere, like
the engagement portraits, next to the uneaten weenies, encrusted with
dried up ketchup and cigarette butts.

And all that's left is my Monetic memory. Dots on a page. Dots across my
brain. The occasional rush like a swell at the pier, the kind that bring
the surfers out. The kind that send me and my board crashing into the
reef, painful, living particles of the past embedded under my skin,
growing and itching like a rash.

Like her suffering.

Children also do not know us apart. Children do not conceive of divorce,
and I wonder if in their greater connection to the Other they understand
to a greater extent the soulish impossibility of the event. The other
night I was with some friends and their amazingly beautiful and charming
daughter of about three. She captures me, and I can only assume
everyone, the minute she enters the room. She runs everywhere with a
smile on her face that can only be compared to a rising sun.

Her Aunt, of whom she sees very little, came by while I was over. Her
father asked her who it was who had come to visit. She said, "Mary."
Over and over again, she said it, each time a tiny dagger stabbed deep
into my heart, a tomato with a hundred hors d'oeuvre swords stuck into
it.

This little girl did not understand, did not conceive of the fact, that
this woman who happened to be in the same room with me, a tall woman
with long brown hair speaking with the same voice and language, was not
the same one who was with me. 

Was. Years ago. Before she could even talk. We hadn't seen her but once
or twice since.

Natasha and I spoke about New York the other night. We weren't there at
the same time, of course, we've never been anywhere together other than
the porn shop, Denny's, and my shithole apartment. 

I have been there many a time and connected deeply with its rapidly
pumping steel heart, people the red and white blood cells running across
its asphalt arteries, its brightly lit signs the synapses for life-sized
neurotransmitters. Natasha was there during the blackout, and I imagine
her quiet soul looking up and around as the city ground to a beautiful
halt and spent some time simply waiting, just taking itself in for a
day. I should have been there, too. I belong in places where the lights
have gone out.

Natasha just happens to always be in places where the lights have gone
out. 

My only delight comes from the thought of her being there when they came
back on. She deserves to have the lights come back on. She deserves some
light.

Woke with a start at 5:45 this morning.

One little bonus with waking up before the sun is I was able to go watch
the sunrise. I can't remember the last time I watched a sunrise. That
thing just pops right out of the ocean. New beginnings. The sun will
rise and all that. It is definitely dumb-struck awe I felt as I
considered exactly what that sun is, what this planet is I am sitting
on.

While I was sitting there waiting for the fireball to appear on the
horizon, a couple walked onto the beach. Within a couple minutes the guy
got down on his knees, pulled a box out of his pocket. He was talking a
lot. I imagined his professions of love, his promises of care and
loyalty. The ring was placed on her finger. As he stood I saw her wiping
her cheeks. They stood side by side as the sun arose out of the sea.

This story needs more beauty and less regret, more hope and less
despair, but I am afraid that the only beauty comes from the deepest of
compunction, and the only hope is birthed in the darkest pits of misery.

Regret, not for the love lost, for the love was wonderful and beautiful
and pure, and I will never regret giving or receiving it. It taught me
of life and beauty and of building story together with another. I will
not regret losing it, because I once had it, and to have had it at all
is enough. 

Regret for the life that was lost. The child that could have been. The
children that were destined not to be ours. The lives robbed and cared
for by that great holy Kidnapper, who steals not only hearts but lives
and dreams and the hopes he so jealously desires. I imagine them, for
some reason I imagine them both beautiful girls, dancing around him now,
their flowing brown hair shining in the sunlight, white dresses bouncing
around their ankles. They know each other. They are friends and pluck
the pedals from flowers together, one and then the other, reciting
poetry as they fling the plants' remnants to the ground, the ground far
below them, the ground of our hearts. Perhaps, once that ground has been
covered by many soft colors, they will tread there, light steps in their
small patent leather shoes, reminding us who they are, who they were,
and who we are yet to be, together...and apart.

The rest of this will be about the good. The good from my old life, my
previous life, and my new-yet-to-begin life.

This time I promise.

Only the light dots, even though, like with everything, they are
completely intertwined with the dark ones.


=== My_Life_10.doc ===

We should start at the beginning, then.

The story of Mary and I definitely wasn't one of love at first sight,
not that I really believe in that much anyway. We met one summer, when
summers were still full of sunlight and promise, although that promise
was more abstract and certainly had nothing to do with the two of us
ever creating the stories we did. I was actually crazy about someone
else, this southern belle who could've charmed a baby's diaper clean
with her smile and manner. Mary just wasn't my type.

We kept in touch after that, letter and then email. It was a casual,
long-distance acquaintance, nothing more. A year and a half later, w

{continuity}


=== My_Life_18.doc ===

Wednesday, August 27, I tried to commit suicide.

My wife was out with her lover at the time. We had just gotten back home
after a vacation. As soon as we set foot inside the door she made a
phone call, took a shower, put on her best clothes, and left. I didn’t
know they were lovers at the time. I didn’t even know who he was.

I tried to visit my friends, but all of them were busy. I wonder which
ones knew what was going on but wouldn’t tell me. But I knew anyway. I
knew but for rationally. Rationally I had no idea. But the other ninety
percent of me knew.

I decided to work, but the power went out. That’s when I turned to
drink.

About an hour later I was holding a butcher knife in my hands, laying on
my back, wondering what the best method for getting it into my heart
would be.

Funny, when there’s already a knife in your heart, the best thing it
seems to do is get a real one in there as well.

I decided to call her. I didn’t know where she was, but I had a good
idea. Turns out I was wrong. She couldn’t be at her usual haunts. She
couldn’t get caught.

It was instinct to call her. She was always the one there for me, even
when nobody else was.

She told me to get out, to go have a beer.

I lied on the floor with the butcher knife suspended at arm’s length
above my chest. Lightly swinging it between my index finger and thumb.

I crawled under the desk for a while and cried. It was like I couldn’t
adequately cry. I couldn’t flood the streets with the amount of tears
it would have taken.

I called her again. Desperate.

She was thoroughly pissed off at this point. Surely, I was interrupting
this time. His tongue down her throat. She told me, “Get a grip.”

I threw the phone against the wall and destroyed a few things around me.
I wanted to tear every belonging, every piece of work I had created, I
wanted to tear it all up into a million pieces.

She heard it all.

I still hadn’t managed to kill myself an hour or so later when she
came home. I had called everyone I knew, my best friend, a friend across
town, her parents even. Her mother called her and she cried to her, told
her that I had a knife and was drunk and high. If only. Her father told
her to stay in a hotel for the night. Convenient. At least she got some
that night. I passed out on the floor. I should have jumped out of the
goddamn window.

Sunday, May 30, I am a man without a home. While my body did not die
that night, my spirit certainly did. I’ve pieced together a semblance.
I had to start over again, and I had to go through an accelerated cycle
of the last ten years, sans her. I got born again, again, and blamed
everything on the devil. I emerged from college again, spent half of my
savings on a car and drove halfway across the country to start at life
again. I met someone again, and started trying to imagine a life
together. And this is where I’ve stalled.

I am a man without a home. I live in this city. I enjoy its company, its
textures, its bright days and stormy nights. I have glorious brick walls
and huge windows and ancient wood floors. I stumble across beauty with
equal frequency as always. And it is in the response to this beauty that
I find what I am missing. For at the moment that my heart swell should
be pouring from the top of my head like a fount, I hear but a squeak.
Life should be Godzilla crashing through the walls, but it is only a
mouse hiding in the corner of the closet. 

I am a man without a home. I am displaced. I know many who are
misplaced. We gather around, our damaged souls quietly nod
acknowledgement. We will be here, we will be together, but we will never
be home. Its pieces are strewn around the globe. A living room in
Europe. A kitchen in Asia. A bedroom in Australia. 

The fragments stay with us.

I read her words of happiness, of being at the center, of freedom. I
wonder if they equal being happy, centered, and free. I read her words
of it, as if it was a thing that happened to us, a weather event, an
invading nation, a hostile takeover. Such detachment. I wonder how they
do that. She, the President, Oh God the list goes on and for all I know
You’re on it. 

"Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani?"

I’m at a door, and while it feels just a step or two away, no matter
how many steps I take it remains just that step or two away. 

It is like I’m in an endless hallway, and each door leads to a
different time, but so many of them lead to a past life. I keep opening
them, but I keep seeing the past. And I so desperately wish for that
door that opens to things of which I do not already know.

"Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani?"

You can run, you can hide, you can pretend like nothing ever happened.
You can pretend like you did no wrong.

But sooner or later, we’re going to meet, motherfucker.

It is not just me, or my people, or my generation that is without a
home, without a place. It is humanity. We're all aliens and strangers
just trying our best. Just because we ascend to some ideal of what our
life was supposed to be doesn't mean we have found our true place.


=== My_Life_19.doc ===

Sometimes you just have to jump down that wormhole to see where it
leads. Sometimes you have to follow the shadow into the filthy room just
to see what kind of furniture is in there. Sometimes you have to open
the door to death just to see what form she takes tonight. Sometimes you
have to fold yourself inside out just to see what lies at the deep dark
spot in the middle.

We are a generation unable to procreate. It happens by accident, and
lives are lost like wallets, sometimes unintentionally, left on a café
table downtown, sometimes intentionally, thrown out the window of the
seaside tavern to be drown in the dark sea of our past. 

We age later and later and postpone death further and further along our
trajectories. Our entire existence as humanity has shifted right, down
the timeline. We are not adults until our thirties. We are not parents
until our forties. We don't die until our eighties or nineties. 

Why is it that the older we get, the more we fear the inevitable end?
Don't we have more to be thankful for?

Or do we have more to regret?

As teens we recklessly drive through traffic at breakneck speeds. As
grandparents we toddle along with the blinker on. Shouldn't it be just
the opposite?

We always say we won't change, but we do. We always say we will love
forever, but we don't. We always say we'd rather die young than grow
old, but we wouldn't. We always say we need a change but we'll run,
scared, as soon as change rears its ugly head.

We search and search for that one thing, but we'll never find it. We'll
never find the love that lasts a lifetime. We'll never find the person
that perfectly suits us. We'll never find the comfort level we desire.
We'll never find the fame and adoration we seek.

Because we will refuse to love for a lifetime. Because we do not
perfectly suit anyone else. Because we deny contentment. Because our
need for adoration and affection cannot be satiated.

We will write, we will read; we will sing, we will dance; we will rape,
we will be raped; we will be robbed, we will steal; we will give false
directions, we will be beguiled; we will lead, we will follow; we will
cook, we will eat; we will sleep, we will stay awake for days; we will
travel, we will settle down in the country.

But we will never find what we seek.

And because of this, we will not procreate. We will be the first of many
generations to not replace itself. Slowly there will be fewer and fewer,
and they will be seeking too, but not finding. And there will be less
and less life and less and less novelty for that life to consume, and we
will disappear. A forgotten trace at the end of the blip of humanity's
take on life.

The rest of this will be about the bad. The bad, the bad, the bad.

I like how my immorality hovers around me in its ethereal haze, like the
fog off a November lake, like the Budweiser hanging off a fat man's
neck. It follows me around to all my local haunts and then comes home
with me and sits on the only other chair in my hole. I burn a cigarette
and it breathes deep the second hand smoke like it was the steam in
Norwegian sauna.

My angel goes with me wherever I go as well, drinking incessantly. He's
been drunk ever since the Events, going on about how the world isn't
what it used to be and bemoaning the death of Mary's angel, who, while
ailing and feeling the oncoming pink slip for some time, was finally
ditched in the middle of a dark night many months ago. He belaborly
follows me around to the laundromat, the pub (where his spirits seem to
somehow lift), Denny's, and the porn shop. He hates the porn shop and
wails like a baby my entire shift.

Immorality seems bored there, I think he preferred it when I actually
jerked off to the stuff.

Natasha is the one who always brings the party. She's got a passenger
van of angels and demons, all very chatty. It makes up for her relative
silence.

I went to a different Denny's tonight, the one Natasha doesn't work at.
I needed a change but I still needed comfort food. Sitting alone at
Denny's has become my new favorite pastime. 

There was a man there, alone as I, but speaking animatedly into his cell
phone earpiece. I don't know what it is about cell phone earpieces, but
they immediately connote power. I guess that important people have a lot
of other important people to talk to, and they must speak with them with
such frequency and vigor that they require an earpiece. Like cops, the
radio microphone strapped to their shoulder, they reach up and squeeze
the button and you know you're in trouble. There's some serious shit
behind that mike. I particularly like the cell phone earpiece-mike
combos that stick out in front of one's face like a pop singer and have
the hang-up button on the ear. The person taps their ear when they pick
up or hang up the phone like they are signaling the runner at first to
steal second. "Hello?" they shout. And then the Very Important
Conversation begins.

I listened to my Denny's copatron for some time and it became apparent
he was speaking with his lover. The huge gold ring around his left hand
comical as he argued and apologized to some unseen blonde on the other
side of the phone. I wondered if he was out of town on business talking
to his lover back home or if he was home talking to his lover he met
while away on business. It was like he was on an imaginary date. Instead
of sitting on the other side of the table from him, enjoying a Grand
Slam Hold The Bacon, she was sitting on the other side of the earpiece
from him, wondering when he was going to ditch his loser wife and
flinching when he reached up and tapped his ear and ended their virtual
rendezvous. 

I ended up meeting some interesting characters in Denny's that night,
two women slightly younger than I. I will refer to them as Bitch Girl
and zee German. We spoke casually at the counter and I mentioned I was
headed to the pub. Zee German said "Oh yeah?" and I invited them along.
I was honestly hoping to get lucky, maybe not in the classical sense,
but some hint...hints are the best part of the whole game anyway. I
thought of the bodiless cell phone affair of earlier and dropped
Natasha's call straight to voicemail. I told her later about meeting the
women at the pub but left out these bits.

As I turned from the register a salesman from a boisterous group walked
up and proclaimed, "Hello, Neyyy-reee-zaa, how are you!" struggling to
pronounce the help's name. Only salesmen can use someone's name and make
it sound completely patronizing. I suppose that is because they are
being completely patronizing. Nareeza happened to be a very attractive
Indian woman, and so all I could manage were some soft Hi's and You
too's. I wondered if patronizing salesman man scored any points with his
approach.

At the pub, we had a great night laughing and drinking and talking. Then
towards the end, I was pretty lit, I made this joke about being the only
guy there who wasn't or hadn't already been laid that day. Bitch Girl,
who up to that point had seemed tolerable in a faux-intelligence kind of
way, freaked out and declared her offence and disgust at my comment.

Fine. I apologized, my overly-sensitive 90% going into hypermode, not
wanting to offend.

She did not accept the apology and remained indignantly upset.

"Fuck you" is my general response to those who won't accept a sincere
apology for trivial matters.

But on the way home I thought, since when is sex an off-limits comment
at the pub? I've heard so many people, men and women, say much more
horrible things that what I said so many times, I can't tell you.

Besides my joke was more an honest expression of frustration at a lack
of true intimacy. Accuse me of being a misogynist if you like, but I am
more respectful of women than most men I know.

Once home, Immorality and my angel plopped down next to one another on
the bed and I went into the can to pinch a loaf. There's this
advertisement in my current bathroom read that is for McDonald's. It
shows a baby pressed up against what at first might appear to be a
mother's breast, but is in fact a sesame seed bun. It is the most horrid
thing I have ever seen and it will probably prevent me from eating at
McDonald's for some time. It's a Dutch ad. Silly Europeans. So brilliant
in some ways and so amazingly dreadful in others. Kind of like
Americans. Kind of like the entire world. This is what I read as I sent
the night's shit down the drain.

I spend most nights up until dawn, reading or watching movies. It's
Escape, capital E. I feel bad most days, especially when I have to get
up to go to work and end up hitting snooze 100 times until noon. But I
revel in the stories, figments of someone else's imagination. It
inspires me to write my own story, in the pubs and laundromats and
Denny's and gutters of this dirty, cleaned-up town.

I feel like I have this thing inside of me, I'm pregnant with something
but I just can't tell what it is. Am I about to birth some beautiful
child, or is a demonic alien about to pop out of my chest and kill all
my friends? I read and watch all these stories, I absorb all these
metaphors, I allow myself to be carried away in these descriptions of
beauty, I believe these characters are my friends and my leaders, and
slowly this thing builds, but it won't come out. It just lives inside
me, lover or parasite, vitamin or cigarette smoke, antibiotic or cancer.

I don't know what to do. I just don't.


=== My_Life_20.doc ===

The rain falls on the righteous and the unrighteous alike.

You should know that I'm going to be alright. I'm alright.

Thanks for asking.

I still love her, maybe I always will. It's a different kind of love
now, one I'm not afraid to let linger, one that doesn't keep me up all
night, one that doesn't pound my heart into pulp by her every word.

They say that love is pain. Love is betrayal. Love is anguish. 

Hope. Death. Sin.

 

Selfish.

Love's a bitch.

I remember that we both loved someone else. Just because I came back to
her and she did not come back to me doesn't matter. Just because she
slept with her lover and I never slept with mine doesn't matter. Just
because my love dumped me and hers was already married doesn't matter.

I wonder how he treated her. I wonder how he reacted, if she ever told
him about the pregnancy. I wonder if he was speechless, or promised to
leave his wife and kids to take care of their new life. I wonder if he
assumed she would get an abortion. 

I wonder if after they almost lost their jobs because of their
relationship he cut things off quickly and dramatically or was also
brokenhearted, desperate to find a way to keep it together, to keep it
going.

Hell, I wonder if it is still going.

I wonder what kind of life he promised her, if he ever promised her,
laying in our bed late at night, his kids tucked snuggly into their
beds, his wife alone and wondering where he was.

He telling Her that his wife was a real bitch.

When really she is just like me. And you. And everyone else in this
world.

Human.

I think of all the lies She told to keep her love a secret. The lies on
top of lies. Constant repetition, until she believed them herself. Until
that version of the story, the fiction, was more true than reality. 

Flash cards at night. Big exam in the morning.

We all make stuff up. We all guess at what we don't know. Some of us
just admit that fact and others have a need to always live in the
reality that most suits them. The one that makes them the happiest. The
one that makes other people the happiest. 

Everyone, that is, but me.

Because I know that isn't reality.

Because I know that the rain falls on the righteous and the unrighteous
alike.

And that's why I'm going to be alright. I'm alright.

Life is life. It is full of pain and happiness. It is full of tragedy
and luck. Tears and laughter. Death and birth. That is just the way of
things and you can no more avoid betrayal than you can fabricate love. 

Love is never balanced. Infidelity occurs every second of every day.
Right now, someone's spouse is alone while their partner is getting
their rocks off. And now. And now.

This isn't a call be faithful. I'm not urging you to love.

Just live. Good things will happen and bad things will happen. And
someday you will die. If you are lucky, you will have a few moments to
look back on all the ups and downs. If you are lucky you will have died
a thousand times before and that last one will be no different, only
permanent. 

I'm going to enjoy it while I can. I'm going to bask in the light and
dance in the darkness. I'm going to accept my fate and wrestle with it
every chance I get.

I'm going to be alright. I'm alright.

I know Natasha and I will say goodbye. I know I'm destined to say
goodbye to every traveler on this journey, just as I had to say goodbye
to Mary. But I'm thankful for any company, any warm body in the bed in
the morning, someone to help me believe that I'm not alone.

Because I am alone.

We're all alone.

I'm thankful for Mary, and I'm thankful for Natasha, and I'm thankful
for everyone who reminds me of that fact.

So thank you. And goodbye.

